Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
1
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
1
 Linking Capital with Opportunities 
2019
 
 
!
INTEGRATED REPORT AND 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
2
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
2
The leading Securities Exchange in East and Central Africa connecting 
capital to opportunities in the region through provision of a world 
class trading facility for local and international issuers and investors.
 
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
2

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
3
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
3
Contents
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
3
Our Company
Corporate Information 	
	
	
5 
About this Report	
	
	
	
6
About NSE	
	
	
	
	
8
NSE Structure 	 	
	
	
	
9
NSE History	
	
	
	
	
10 - 11
Chairman’s Statement 		
	
	
12 - 15
Chief Executive’s Statement 	
	
	
16 - 19
Board of Directors 	
	
	
	
20 - 23
Executive Committee Members 	
	
24
NSE 2019 Highlights 	
	
	
	
25 - 29
Enterprise Risk Management Framework 	
31 - 33
Value Creation Process		
	
	
34 - 35
Strategy	
	
	
	
	
36 - 39
Business Review
NSE Sustainability Report	
	
	
40 - 47
Material Issues 	
	
	
	
48 - 52
Financial Performance
Directors’ Report 	
	
	
	
54- 55
Corporate Governance Statement	
	
57- 67
Independent Governance Auditor Report 	
68 - 70
Directors’ Remuneration Report 	
	
71 - 74
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 		
75
Independent Auditor’s Report 		
	
76 - 78
Statement of Profit or Loss and Other  
Comprehensive Income 	
	
	
79 - 80
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 	 81
Company Statement of Financial Position	
82
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 	83
Company Statement of Changes in Equity         84
Statement of Cash Flows 	
	
	
85
Notes to the Financial Statements 	
	
86 - 131
Notice of the Annual General Meeting	 	
Proxy Form
Nomination & Consent Form

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
4
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
4
Creating
Opportunities 
in Regional
Economies
We oﬀer investors access to Kenya’s and East Africa’s 
economic growth through exposure to leading 
companies across various sectors of the economy.
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
4

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
5
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
5
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
5

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
6
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
6
Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc is pleased to present 
its integrated report for the period January 1 2019 to 
December 31 2019. The report is aimed at providing 
adequate information to our stakeholders, giving a 
comprehensive overview of how the NSE created value 
to all its stakeholders in the period under review. It 
reports on how the NSE leveraged on its various forms 
of capitals to create and enhance value. 
The report will offer our stakeholders a deeper 
understanding of our operations, highlighting our 
achievements, opportunities as well as challenges 
we faced during the period under review as we seek 
to become Africa’s leading trading and investment 
platform.
 
 Purpose
This report is an acknowledgement of the critical 
importance the Group has placed in enhancing its 
communication with stakeholders through linking 
financial and non-financial standards in measuring our 
performance.
This report will therefore provide insights into the 
financial, operational, strategic, social and governance 
performance as well as outcomes and implications to 
the Group in the year under review.  
 
Scope of the Report
The scope of this report relates to the NSE, an 
investment services company as well as material 
issues arising from its Derivatives Market, its related 
investments and other business lines. Any reference 
made to the Group will represent the NSE and its 
subsidiaries as well as its associate investments.
The report will however capture any material issues 
arising from any related transactions regarding the 
Group before the publication of this report.
 
Preparations and Presentation
This integrated report has been prepared in 
accordance 
with 
the 
International 
Integrated 
Reporting Framework. The NSE Board of Directors 
have applied the fundamental concepts and principles 
recommended in the framework in the preparation of 
this report. 
As a listed company, we have prepared this report in 
line with the guidelines of the Kenya Companies Act 
2015 and specifications issued by the Capital Markets 
Authority (CMA).
The Group Financial Statements were prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS).
 
Assurance
The Group’s Financial Statements were audited by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC) to enhance their 
integrity and reliability.
GEOFFREY O. ODUNDO
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
6

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
7
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
7
Growing 
the Region’s 
Financial 
Services Hub
Growing 
the Region’s 
Financial 
Services Hub
We provide an all-inclusive trading platform anchored on  
best-in-class  trading technology, wide array of investment 
products and data dissemination capabilities.
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
7

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
8
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
8
ABOUT NSE
Vision
To oﬀer a world class trading 
facility.
Our Mission
A leading securities Exchange in 
Africa with a global reach.
Core Values
Ethics
Integrity
Conﬁdentiality
Innovation
Excellence
Who we are
We are the leading securities Exchange in East and 
Central Africa linking capital to opportunities through 
oﬀering world class investment services. We oﬀer a 
leading trading technology platform anchored on 
diverse investment products providing issuers various 
ﬁnancing options whilst availing innovative solutions 
for  deployment of capital to investors.
Our diverse blend of retail and institutional investors 
both local and foreign enable companies and the 
Government 
mobilize 
domestic 
resources 
and 
international capital to support growth.
We are the gateway to the regions’s economic growth. 
We oﬀer investors and issuer’s exposure to the regions 
economic growth, a credible and reliable entry point.
Who we 
serve
Investors
We serve a wide 
array of retail and 
institutional 
investors both 
domestic and 
foreign with  
mandates to invest 
in frontier equities 
and Derivatives 
Markets. 
Issuers
We oﬀer a capital 
raising platform for 
issuers looking to 
raise debt or equity 
capital.
Government
We provide an 
avenue for the 
Government to 
raise capital to 
ﬁnance recurrent 
expenditure and 
infrastructure 
projects.
Data 
Clients
The NSE oﬀers data 
products to a wide 
variety of domestic 
and international 
clients including; 
Data Vendors, 
Investment 
Advisors, Fund 
Managers, Trading 
System Developers 
as well as Index 
Computing 
Companies.
Training 
Clients
We oﬀer both basic 
and specialized 
training services to a 
wide variety of market 
players and the 
general public.  Our 
training services 
builds the capacity of 
market players in an 
ever changing 
environment, 
ensuring their ability 
to trade with even the 
most complex of 
instruments while 
keeping up with 
global trends. 
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
8

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
9
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
9
NSE STRUCTURE
Shareholders
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
Central Depository & 
Settlement Corporation 
Limited (CDSC)
NSE Clear Limited
NSE Settlement
Guarantee Fund 
(SGF)
NSE Investor 
Protection
Fund (IPF)
* The Board of Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and IPF who manage and administer the funds.
100%
22.5%
AKS Nominees 
Limited
61%
18%

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
10
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
10
2014 
September
The NSE listed its 194,625,000 issued 
and fully paid up shares on the Main 
Investment Market Segment under 
a new sector - Investment Services 
of the Bourse after a successful IPO. 
Following its self-listing, the Exchange 
became the second African Exchange 
after the Johannesburg Stock Ex-
change, to be listed,supports trading, 
clearing and settlement of equities, 
debt, derivatives and other associated 
instruments.
NSE HISTORY
1991
The NSE was registered as a private 
company limited by shares. Share 
trading moved from being conducted 
over a cup of tea (at the Exchange 
Bar at the Stanley Hotel), to the floor 
based open outcry system.
2006 
The NSE implemented live trading on 
its own Automated Trading System 
(ATS) trading equities. The ATS also 
had the capability of trading immo-
bilized corporate bonds and treasury 
bonds.
2008 April
The NSE launched the NSE Invest-
ment Challenge to promote financial 
literacy and stock market investments 
amongst Kenyan youth.
2014 June
The NSE received formal approval 
from the Capital Markets Authority 
(CMA) to operate as a demutualized 
entity. The NSE also received formal 
approval from the CMA to offer its 
shares to the public through an Initial 
Public offer (IPO) and to self list it 
shares.
1920 -1953
Dealing in shares commenced with 
trading taking place on a gentleman’s 
agreement. London Stock Exchange 
(LSE) officials accepted to recognize 
the setting up of the Nairobi Stock 
Exchange (NSE) as an overseas stock 
exchange in 1953.
2009 
The NSE marked the first day of auto-
mated trading in government bonds 
through the ATS and uploaded all 
government bonds on the System.
2011 July
The Nairobi Stock Exchange Limit-
ed changed its name to the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange Limited. The 
change of name was a reflection of 
the 2010 – 2014 strategic plan of 
the NSE to evolve into a full service 
securities exchange, which supports 
trading, clearing and settlement of 
equities, debt, derivatives and other 
associated instruments.
2013 January
The Growth Enterprise Market Seg-
ment was launched giving small and 
medium enterprises a great opportu-
nity to access the capital markets.
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
10

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
11
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
11
2016 July
The NSE received formal recognition 
as a Self-Regulatory Organization 
(SRO) by the Capital Markets Authority 
(CMA).
2015 October
The NSE became the fourth African
Bourse to launch Real Estate Invest-
ments Trusts (REITs) market and 
consequently listed the first REIT, the 
Stanlib Fahari I-REIT.
2017 June
The NSE became the first Exchange in 
the East African region to introduce 
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and 
subsequently listed the Barclays New 
Gold ETF.
2018 January
The NSE became the first Exchange in
East and Central Africa to be admitted 
as a full member of the World Federa-
tion of Exchanges (WFE).
2019 May
The East African Securities Exchanges 
Association (EASEA) in partnership 
with the Rwanda Stock Exchange 
hosted the inaugural within East 
Africa Capital Markets Day in Kigali, 
Rwanda.
2018 December
The NSE launched its incubation and 
acceleration program dubbed Ibuka 
(meaning ‘emerge’ in Swahili) to offer 
companies the opportunity to grow 
their businesses and develop scalable 
and impactful business models.
2019 July
The NSE launched NEXT Derivatives 
Market, becoming the second Ex-
change in Africa to offer Exchange 
traded derivatives. The launch ena-
bled the NSE commence the trading 
of Single Stock and Index Futures.
2019 February
The NSE launched revised listing rules 
incorporating listing requirements 
for Green Bonds enabling the NSE 
offer a new asset class to issuers and 
investors.
2019 October
The NSE launched a new trading sys-
tem provided by millennium technolo-
gies, who are part of the London Stock 
Exchange Group.
NSE HISTORY (CONTINUED)
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
11

12
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Samuel Kimani
Dear Shareholders,
Over the last six and a half decades, we have 
continued to offer a world class trading facility 
enabling issuers’ access financing whilst providing 
a credible avenue for investors to deploy their 
capital. In pursuit of our role, we have made 
strategic investments that have continuously 
driven our growth, supported our impact to the 
economy and enabled us deliver value to you, 
our shareholders. 
Operating Environment
According to the World Bank, Global Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP) growth in 2019 stood 
at 2.4% growth the slowest growth since the 
financial crisis. Rising trade barriers coupled with 
geopolitical tensions resulted into higher tariffs 
and uncertainty around trade policies leading to 
a 65% decrease in global trade from 4% in 2018 to 
1.4% in 2019.
Growth in Sub-Saharan Africa decreased marginally 
in 2019, to 2.4% due to declining external demand, 
reduced commodity prices and rising global 
uncertainty. 
Kenyan GDP growth rate was also subdued in the year 
reducing to 5.7% down from 6.3% recorded in 2018. 
This was heavily attributed to low agricultural output as 
the country adjusted to erratic and unexpected weather 
patterns as well as weak private sector investment in 
2019. We also witnessed slow private sector credit 
growth during the year owing to the interest rate caps 
that prevailed for a larger part of the year.
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
12

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
13
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
13
Owing to the cumulatively, global, regional and national 
growth slow down, capital flow  from our major markets 
in South Africa, Europe and America were affected hence 
having an impact on trading in our market.
Performance on Strategic Priorities (2015-2019)
The year 2019 marked the end of our 2015-2019 
Strategic Period.  I am happy to report that against a 
backdrop of challenging macro-economic factors in both 
local and international markets over the last five years, 
we delivered against some of our key priority areas. 
The strategy was anchored on three pillars; revenue 
growth and diversification, building our reputation as a 
well as strengthening our organizational capacity and 
governance. 
2015 - 2019 
Strategic Pillars
ANGLE-DOUBLE-UP 
Revenue Growth & 
Diversification
Book-reader
Reputation  
Building
user-circle
Organizational  
Capacity & 
Governance Strength
Guided by this strategy, we embarked on a product 
development strategy to increase our offering to investors 
and issuers as well as diversify our income streams. In 
the last five years, we have successfully developed and 
launched Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), Exchange 
Traded Funds (ETFs), Derivatives market as well as the 
world’s first mobile traded government infrastructure 
bond, M-Akiba. Equally, we established the regulatory 
framework for the listing of Green Instruments which 
facilitated the issuance and listing of the first green bond 
in January 2020. 
M-Akiba  
       Bond    500,000 
   New Bond Investors
The launch of these products has seen a fair amount of 
success. The M-Akiba Bond has enabled us register over 
500,000 new bond investors underscoring its potential to 
revolutionize access to the market by majority of Kenyans. 
The NSE Derivatives Market has proved attractive to 
domestic retail investors recording over 390 contracts 
worth over Kshs. 20 Million from local investors. 
In October 2019, we successfully completed the upgrade 
and transition to a new Equities Trading System. The 
new system provides a more robust, reliable and 
efficient system which supports enhanced trading, listed 
securities on the NSE. The upgraded system will  boost 
liquidity by  enabling day trading  as well as supporting 
lending and borrowing of tradable securities.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
To build a strong and credible brand, we undertook 
various initiatives to enhance our reputation as a trusted 
and independent premier Exchange. Core to this was 
establishing our brand position among our clients, gaining 
admission to the World Federation of Exchanges as well 
as attaining full Self-Regulatory Organization status. To 
evaluate the strength and positioning of the NSE brand, 
we undertook a brand survey among our clients and 
are currently implementing the recommendations of 
the survey. During the period, we also enhanced the 
relationship with our regulator, the Capital Markets 
Authority, which actively supported implementation of 
our key strategic objectives.
__________
"We purchased a majority stake in 
AKS Nominees Limited, which owns 
18% of CDSC Limited."
__________
In 2019, we executed on our strategic acquisition program 
with the purchase of majority stake in AKS Nominees 
Limited where we acquired 61% of the company at 
the close of the year and in the process increasing our 
indirect shareholding in the CDSC from 22.5% to 40.5% 
This acquisition is for synergistic purposes and is aimed 
at strengthening our trading ecosystem.  This strategic 
acquisition complements our other investments in the 
Dar-es-alam Stock Exchange in line with our objective of 
investing in related businesses.
Business and Financial Performance
Our business performance in 2019 faced immense 
challenges with the performance of various asset 
classes showing a high correlation with emerging global 
macro-economic challenges that were characterized by 
heightened political and economic developments. 
Our main revenue stream, trading fees, was under 
pressure on account of reduced activity by foreign 
investors in the first half of the year driven by heightened 
trade tensions between the United States and China and; 
prolonged uncertainty around Brexit, which negatively 
weighed on international investor sentiments. Locally, 
asset reallocation from equities to fixed income assets by 
domestic institutional investors further reduced activity 
on our equities market. This resulted in a 12% decrease 
in equity turnover in the year.
Despite the protracted macroeconomic headwinds, the 
NSE put a resilient performance to close the year as 
the best performing frontier equity market globally with 
an 18% gain in dollar returns against a global average 
of 5.39% (as measured by the Morgan Stanley Capital 
International Index). This was mainly driven by a rally in 
banking stocks in the second half of the year following 
the repeal of the law capping interest rates by banks and 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
14
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
14
continued stability of the Kenyan Shilling in the course of 
the year. Additionally, the NSE was the best performing 
market in Sub – Saharan Africa over the past decade 
surging 74% during the period. 
During the year, the Group reported a decline in profit 
before tax of Kshs.104 million in 2019 from Kshs.240 
million reported in 2018. Net earnings also declined 
by  58% to Kshs. 80 Million as compared to Kshs. 191 
Million recorded over the same period in 2018. This was 
occasioned by a 9% decrease in revenues mainly driven 
by a 12% drop in equity turnover. During the period, the 
Board reviewed the Group’s cost base leading to a one off 
restructuring cost of Kshs. 52 Million, aimed at lowering 
our cost to income ratio as well as enhancing efficiencies 
across the Group which impacted on our bottom line.
In line with our dividend policy that is aimed at deepening 
shareholder value while ensuring that the business 
remains well capitalized, the  Board recommends the 
payment of a first and final dividend of Kshs. 0.08 per 
share for the Financial Year ending 2019. 
Impact of COVID-19
As we review our performance in 2019, kindly allow 
me to provide insights on a new and unprecedented 
challenge of the Covid 19 virus. The emergence of this 
highly contagious virus has had a significant impact on 
the global economic and social life, resulting to death 
of citizens, high rates of infections, institution of health 
protocols, containment of towns, interruption to global 
supply chains among key factors that have impacted on 
our normal lives.  As part of our adherence and response 
to this crisis we have undertaken a number of measures 
to ensure business continuity, health and safety of staff 
as well as support to the Government in its efforts to 
control the impact of this pandemic. 
__________
"Some of the measures undertaken 
by the company include institution 
of our business continuity 
programs."
__________
Some of the measures undertaken by the company 
include institution of our business continuity programs 
including compulsion for all staff where possible to 
work from home, activation of the trading infrastructure 
remotely; effecting of a remote surveillance of the 
market, facilitating the trading community to work 
from home ; revamping our NSE App - which now 
has capability for investors to access their trading 
participants from a single front end and implementing 
a virtual communication environment for the Board and 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
management to run the company. Further to this and 
working closely with the Capital Markets Authority and 
other stakeholders we provided corporate action support 
to our listed companies. We also supported the resource 
mobilization efforts of the National Government and a 
Capital Markets contributed over Kshs.30 million to the 
National Resources Mobilization Fund.
It is our belief that together we will overcome this 
challenge and as the Exchange, we remain focused 
on providing the desired support to ensure that our 
infrastructure remains stable and highly available to our 
investors.
Future Outlook
Our growth plan comes at a crucial time in Kenya and 
around the world where there is a great shift in how 
consumers are accessing financial services. This changing 
landscape has exposed the massive potential of growing 
our reach especially to retail investors through online 
and mobile technology. We are keen on capitalizing on 
this change through fostering innovation to support our 
reach globally. In view of this, we have commenced a 
process which when successfully completed, will enable 
retail investors directly access the market from their 
mobile phones. This will give us access to more than 85% 
of the Kenyan population who have access to mobile 
devices.
__________
"This changing landscape has 
exposed the massive potential of 
growing our reach especially to 
retail investors through online and 
mobile technology."
__________
To increase the number of listed companies, we geared 
our engagements to encourage privatisation of state 
owned enterprises (SOEs). Privatizations will enhance 
liquidity in our market, reduce the current concentrated 
trading in a few large cap companies,  as well as increase 
the market capitalization on the NSE. The NSE is also 
engaging the Government with a view to having it reduce 
its shareholding in some of the listed SOEs through 
secondary offerings whilst retaining strategic influence 
in the companies. The two initiatives will enable the NSE 
increase the number of companies accessing the market 
to raise funds either through Rights or Debt issues. 
  
Together with the Kenya Association of Stockbrokers and 
Investment Banks, we established Ibuka - an innovative 
incubation and acceleration program, with a hosting 
platform, to prepare a pipeline of private companies to 
access our market. At the close of 2019, the program had 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
15
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
15
a total of 22 hostees across various sectors of the economy, underscoring 
the program’s attractiveness among Kenyan enterprises. 
To cushion our business from constant revenue pressures arising from 
market uncertainties, we have geared our efforts to increase revenues from 
data and training services. 
We aim to achieve this through offering an expanded portfolio of data and 
training products to clients across major investments markets. We have 
commenced a working relationship with institutions of higher learning to 
offer data services for academic and research purposes as part of core 
partnership arrangements to deliver on this objective. 
Appreciation 
Our performance and resilience as a business has only been possible due to 
the hard work and commitment of all our staff. Their ability and willingness to 
adapt to the ever changing factors affecting our business and continuously 
remaining motivated has been critical in supporting this business. I thank 
the Management team and staff for their dedication to the NSE.
I would like to thank my Board for their guidance and perspective in running 
the business. The Board has been critical in challenging and inspiring 
management to view opportunities in entirely new ways and constantly 
focusing the Group achieve the overall strategy.
Our shareholders are the cornerstone of our business. I take this opportunity 
to express my gratitude to you for entrusting us with your capital. I would 
like to reassure of our commitment to business growth and delivery of 
enhanced returns to you our shareholder.
It would be remiss of me not to acknowledge our stakeholders in the 
capital markets industry, including the Kenya Association of Stockbrokers 
and Investment Banks and market participants, our listed companies, the 
Fund Managers Association, various professional membership bodies, 
multilateral organizations and other business partners in the private and 
public sectors. 
Finally, I would like to express my gratitude to the Government. We have 
continued to see increased support from the Government through the 
National Treasury, the Capital Markets Authority, the Ministry of Trade, 
Industry and Co-operatives and the Privatization Commission, amongst 
other Government agencies.
We look forward to a better year with improved returns and more impact 
to our economy as we seek to continue to connect opportunity to capital 
through offering best-in-class investment services to issuers and investors 
regionally and around the world.
Samuel Kimani
Chairman of the Board
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

16
16
CEO’S 
STATEMENT
Geofrey O. Odundo
Dear Shareholders,
I am honoured to present a report for the year 
2019 which marked the end of our 2015-2019 
strategic period; whose overarching objective 
was to build a world class trading facility offering 
a wide variety of products. The strategy also 
aspired to deepen shareholders value following 
the successful listing of the company in 2014.
Our business remains a significant player in 
the growth of Kenya’s economy providing a 
venue for capital raising by the government 
and private sectors who are able to access a 
wide breath of investor pools both locally and 
internationally. 
As we close this strategic period, I am happy to 
note that we have grown to become one of the 
most attractive frontier markets, offering investors 
innovative avenues for deployment of capital. As 
a business we have undergone a transformative 
journey, growing from an Exchange offering two 
asset classes to one offering six asset classes 
and over twelve products. This achievement has 
also positioned us as the second most diverse 
exchange in Africa.
New Market Dynamics
The emerging market dynamics characterized 
by global economic challenges, numerous policy 
changes and competition for capital has led to 
varying trading cycles in our market. Despite these 
challenges, we remain confident of the business 
ability to counter them by offering products that 
match our investors' needs.
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
17
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
17
With the growing demand for affordable capital and a 
growing investor middle class we see an opportunity 
for convergence for both parties and the need for the 
exchange to be responsive to their demands. It is with 
this focus that we accelerated the development of new 
products, improved our trading infrastructure and 
enhanced our profile during the last strategic period. 
__________
"We remain confident of the 
business ability to counter 
challenges by offering products that 
match our investors' needs."
__________
We take cognizant of the fact that most enterprises still 
prefer bank debt capital to run their businesses with few 
exploring similar opportunities in the capital market; in 
addition our demand side is highly concentrated towards 
institutional investors with our retail pool comprising of 
less than 10% our traded volume. This is the inherent 
opportunity that we should exploit with the focus being 
on  shifting interest into capital market financing through 
our Ibuka platform, using technological driven front ends 
to enable investors access markets and building the 
attraction of the market through favourable incentives to 
both issuers and investors.
Trading and Financial Performance 
Our trading and financial performance in the year was 
affected by various macro-economic factors locally 
and internationally. Despite these challenges, the NSE 
was named the best performing frontier equity market 
globally with an 18% gain in dollar returns.
Our benchmark indices recorded improved performance 
compared to the year 2018. The all-inclusive NSE All Share 
Index recorded a 17.19% gain to settle at 166.41 while 
the NSE 25 Share Index was up 15.46% to close the year 
at 4100.57 points. The NSE 20 Share Index was down 
6.33% closing the year at 2654.39. During the period, 
foreign investor participation averaged at 66.62%.
Equity turnover which accounted for 23.60% of total 
trading turnover declined by 12% from Kshs. 351 Billion 
in 2018 to Kshs. 307 Billion in 2019. Bonds turnover 
however edged up 15.80% to settle at Kshs. 1.3 trillion 
from Kshs. 1.1 trillion recorded last year an increased re-
allocation of funds to fixed income assets.
During the year, net profit declined by 58% to Kshs. 80 
Million from Kshs. 191 Million recorded in 2018 reflecting 
the impact of reduced activity on our equity market. 
Equity trading levies decreased by 12% from Kshs. 421.6 
Million in 2018 to Kshs. 369.1 Million in 2019. 
CEO’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Interest income in the year decreased by 23% to Kshs. 
89.1 Million from Kshs. 116.3 Million recorded in 2018 
due to utilization of cash deposits on acquisition of 
strategic investments.
1% ARROW-ALT-CIRCLE-UP  
    Increase in Group's  
  Total Assets
During the period, we undertook decisive strategic 
measures to reduce the company’s costs following a 
review of the Group’s cost base. This led to a one-off 
restructuring cost of Kshs. 52 Million which increased the 
Group’s administrative expense further impacting on our 
performance during the period. 
The Group’s total assets increased marginally by 1% from 
Kshs. 2.218 Billion as at 31st December 2018 to Kshs. 
2.242 Billion as at 31st December 2019.
Increasing Engagements with Issuers
As we focused on growing the number of listed companies, 
we placed special focus on increasing our interaction 
with potential issuers. Central to this was engaging with 
private sector enterprises through the Ibuka Program 
which we launched in December 2018. Over the 
course of 2019, the program admitted 22 companies 
across various sectors of the economy underscoring its 
attractiveness among private companies in Kenya. 
22 Building  
Private Companies 
admitted through the NSE 
Ibuka Program 
Our aim is to increase listings from the program with a 
target of four listings annually from the program. Ibuka 
will enhance the corporate listing journey by making 
them investor ready.
The Government’s privatization program remains a 
key source of quality companies which can list in our 
market. In this regard, we have increased our interaction 
with the Government to encourage the listing of state 
owned enterprises as well as seeking additional sell 
down opportunities for already listed firms to support its 
capital raising efforts. 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
18
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
18
People and Culture
Our staff are a central part of our growth. They bring 
significant value, knowledge and expertise which is key in 
enabling the Group achieve its goals. Their commitment 
has been fundamental to our transformation.
In 2019, we continued to invest in our employees 
presenting various opportunities to expand their 
knowledge base and inculcate an innovative, robust and 
diverse culture. We invested Kshs. 5.6 Million in training 
and professional development of our staff during the 
year.
To ensure the Group has a pool of skilled employees for 
future growth and business continuity, we recruited the 
second cohort of our graduate trainees. The new trainees 
will specialize in Legal, Technology and Operations as 
well Regulatory Affairs assignments.
__________
"In 2019, we continued to invest in 
our employees presenting various 
opportunities to expand their 
knowledge base and inculcate 
an innovative, robust and diverse 
culture"
__________
The NSE’s Executive Committee team graduated from the 
Strathmore Advanced Management Program following 
their successful completion of the leadership training 
course. The training has enhanced their leadership and 
management skills further empowering them to deliver 
against the Group’s objective.
Appreciation
I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the 
Chairman and the Board of Directors for the guidance 
and support accorded to us during the year and also 
in our efforts to accomplish the Group’s key strategic 
initiatives. Their leadership has been instrumental in 
transforming the NSE into a globally recognized market 
and a leading Exchange in Africa.
I would also like to appreciate the NSE team for their 
continued commitment and invaluable contribution to 
the company during the year. Your dedication to the 
organization’s mission and devotion to its core values 
have been a critical factor of our success. I look forward 
to a more dedicated year ahead as we strive to link our 
client opportunities to capital.
Future Outlook
Our expectation for economic growth in 2020 are 
moderate driven by the outbreak and spread of 
COVID-19.The new global pandemic has affected all 
facets our economy and social life and we have laid a 
focus on ensuring that we remain resilient during this 
time while optimizing on technology to ensure that we 
continue to operate optimally. 
We remain committed to ensuring that we complement 
the Governments’ efforts in containing this virus by 
ensuring availability of the trading infrastructure 
through our remote automated processes. Our robust 
systems and highly committed market participants will 
ensure uninterrupted trading, and efficient clearing 
and settlement of all securities traded. The NSE is also 
committed to working closely with regulators, service 
providers, trading members and various stakeholders 
in the capital markets ecosystem to ensure that we 
deliver an integrated contingency approach to safeguard 
integrity, business continuity and uninterrupted access 
to the markets during this unprecedented period.
__________
"Our expectation for economic 
growth in 2020 are moderate 
driven by the outbreak and spread of 
COVID-19."
__________
During this period, we are encouraging access to the 
market through various online and mobile platforms 
provided for by our brokerage community. We have also 
enhanced easier access by offering access to our Trading 
Participants platforms through our website. 
As we work in these conditions, we will continue 
undertaking initiatives to enhance value for the business. 
We have geared our efforts to increase listings through 
the Ibuka Program, support growth of the Data and 
Training business lines as well as explore new revenue 
lines. We are in the process of setting up a virtual 
academy to ensure that training of various clients is 
undertaken remotely without any interruption during 
this period. 
We will continue to promote our new products including 
the Exchange Traded Funds and REITs that have proven 
to viable among investors.
CEO’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
19
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
19
Our achievements specifically against our strategy could not have been 
possible without the support of the Capital Markets Authority and the 
National Government. It is in this regard that I express my gratitude for their 
support. I would like to express our appreciation to all our stakeholders in 
our ecosystem who have been part of our journey.
Conclusion
To our shareholders, we remain hopeful in the company’s positive growth 
trajectory in the long term. Having made strategic investments across our 
company to expand our product offering and grow other business lines, 
we have set up a stable foundation that will enable us continue generating 
strong returns and value for you..
Geoffrey O. Odundo
Chief Executive Officer
CEO’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
20
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
20
Samuel  
Kimani
Chairman
Age 58 
Nationality Kenyan
Background Banking, Finance, Capital 
Markets
Appointed Chairman of the NSE Board 
on March 21, 2012
Mr. Kimani holds an MBA in Strategic 
Management and a BSc. in Civil Engineering, 
both from the University of Nairobi. He 
is a Certified Public Accountant of Kenya 
(CPA-K) and a graduate of the Advanced 
Management Program (AMP 177) from 
Harvard University.
He has a wealth of experience in the banking 
industry having served as the immediate 
former 
Managing 
Director 
and 
Chief 
Executive Officer of Jamii Bora Bank Ltd. 
He has also served as the Deputy CEO and 
Finance Director of the Kenya Commercial 
Bank (KCB) Group. Prior to this, he served at 
the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) as Deputy 
Chief Banking Manager, Deputy Director 
Financial 
Markets, 
Principle 
Financial 
Accountant, and the Chief Internal Auditor. 
He also headed the Surveillance Division of 
the Deposit Protection Fund and served as a 
Senior Auditor at PriceWaterhouseCoopers 
(PWC). 
He sits on the board of the Central 
Depository and Settlement Corporation 
(CDSC) and is a member of the University of 
Stellenbosch Executive Education Advisory 
Board (USB-ED).
Bob  
Karina
Vice Chairman
Age 67 
Nationality Kenyan
Background Corporate Finance and 
Information Technology
Appointment Mr. Karina was 
appointed Vice-Chairman of the 
NSE Board on March 21, 2012
Mr. Karina, holds an MSc in Corporate 
Finance from the University of Liverpool, 
UK, in addition to key technical and 
professional 
qualifications. 
He 
is 
the 
Founder and Chairman of Faida Investment 
Bank, Corporate Finance Specialist, an 
accomplished Stockbroker and Research 
Analyst. He serves as the Chairman of the 
Association of Kenya Stockbrokers (AKS) 
Nominees Ltd and a Founder Member of 
the Institute of Certified Investment and 
Financial Analysts (ICIFA). He is a Director 
of the Central Depository and Settlement 
Corporation (CDSC), the NSE Clear Ltd., 
Trustee of both NSE Investor Protection 
Fund and NSE Derivatives Settlement 
Guarantee Fund.
 
As the Chair of the Implementation 
Committee that spearheaded developments 
in Kenya’s Capital Market, Mr. Karina played 
a critical role in the establishment of the 
CDSC, the NSE Automated Trading System 
(ATS), the Wide Area Network (WAN) and the 
Broker Back Office (BBO). 
 
He is the Vice Chairman of the Rwanda Stock 
Exchange (RSE), Director Kenya Industrial 
Estates (KIE), Chairman of Norwich Union 
Properties Ltd., has served as Director of 
Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) and 
Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry (KNCCI).
Geoffrey 
Odundo
Chief Executive
Age 51 
Nationality Kenyan
Background Economics and Investment   	
Banking
Appointment CEO since March 3, 2015
Mr. Odundo, holds a Master’s degree in Strategic 
Management and an undergraduate degree in 
Mathematics and Economics. He is an Advanced 
Management 
Program 
(AMP) 
graduate 
from 
Strathmore Business School. Mr. Odundo was 
appointed Chief Executive of the NSE on March 3, 
2015. He is an accomplished Investment Banker 
having been in the financial services sector for the 
last 27 years, 21 of which have been in the Capital 
Markets. 
Prior to his appointment, Mr. Odundo was the 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of 
Kingdom Securities Limited. He was instrumental in 
the setting up of Coop Trust Investment Services, 
Co-op Consultancy Services Limited and Kingdom 
Securities Limited. 
Mr. Odundo has advised on a number of corporate 
finance mandates in both the public and private 
sectors; he has also managed key mandates in the 
asset management industry. He has contributed to 
the growth of the Capital Markets in his previous 
role as a Director/Board Secretary - Kenya 
Association of Stock Brokers and Investment Banks, 
Chairman of the Financial Standards Committee - 
Kenya Bureau of Standards as well as the Board 
Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. 
Mr. Odundo serves as a Director of the Central 
Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC) 
Limited, Director of the NSE Clear Limited; and a 
trustee of the NSE Fidelity Funds.
He is a member of the Central Bank Consolidative 
Forum for Domestic Debt Market (CFDDM) and 
a Council Member of the Institute of Certified 
Investment Financial Analysts (ICIFA). Mr. Odundo 
is also a board member of the Africa Securities 
Exchanges Association (ASEA), a Director of the 
East African Securities Exchanges Association and a 
Member of the Thomson Reuters Africa Customer 
Advisory Network.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
21
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
21
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (CONTINUED)
Paul
Mwai 
Director
Age 52 
Nationality Kenyan
Background Investment Banking
Appointment Director since  
May 30, 2018.
Mr. Mwai, holds an MBA from Strathmore 
University and a Bachelors of Business from 
the University of Southern Queensland. 
He holds an Investment Management 
Certificate from UK Society for Investment 
Professionals and is an Associate Member 
of the Chartered Institute of Bankers. 
He is an Authorized Representative for the 
Growth Enterprise Market Segment (GEMS) 
of the NSE. He is the Chief Executive of 
AIB Capital and the Chairman of the Kenya 
Association of Stock Brokers and Investment 
Banks (KASIB). He has over twenty years’ 
experience 
in 
the 
financial 
services 
industry including fund management and 
investment banking.
He has worked in various departments 
within 
the 
Barclays 
Group, 
including 
Barclays Merchant Finance Ltd (BMFL) and 
Barclays Dealing Centre, before joining the 
Barclays trust Investment Services Group 
in 1998 as a Fund Manager. He served as 
a Senior Portfolio Manager at Old Mutual 
Asset Managers following the acquisition 
of Barclays Trust by Old Mutual in October 
2002 and as an Asset Allocation Strategist. 
He joined AIB Capital in February 2012 from 
African Alliance Investment Bank where he 
was the Chief Executive.
Hosea 
Kili
Director
Age 57 
Nationality Kenyan
Background Law, Investments
Appointment Director since  
March 21, 2012.
Mr. Kili, holds an MBA in Strategic 
Management 
from 
the 
Management 
College of Southern Africa (MANCOSA) and 
a Bachelors of Law (LLB). He is an Advocate 
of the High Court of Kenya, Fellow of the 
Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of 
Kenya - FCPS(K) and Fellow Member of the 
Kenya Institute of Management.
He is the Group Managing Director and 
CEO of CPF Financial Services Ltd. Mr. 
Kili is the former Chairperson of the East 
& 
Central 
Social 
Security 
Association 
(ECASSA), a regional social security body. 
He has extensive training and experience 
in legal issues, corporate governance, 
management and investment of pension 
schemes. He is currently serving as 
the Chairman, Association of Pension 
Administrators of Kenya (APAK). In 2011, Mr. 
Kili was conferred the Order of the Golden 
Warrior (O.G.W), a Head of State award for 
his exemplary service by H.E the President 
of Kenya.
Paul  
Vollant
Director
Age 36
Nationality French
Background Business 
Administration
Appointment Director since  
June 02, 2016.
Mr. Vollant, holds an MSc in Business 
Administration from the ESDES Business 
School at the Catholic University of Lyon 
(France) and is a Graduate of the Australian 
Institute of Company Directors.
 
He is the Director of Sales & Trading at 
Largo Resources, a Canadian listed mining 
company.
 
Prior to joining Largo, Mr. Vollant was the 
Ganeral Manager of Business Development 
at TNG Ltd. in Shanghai, China and before 
that the Managing Director of Element 
Commodities where he spearheaded the 
company’s European Middle East and 
African (EMEA) trading and investments in 
the mining assets in French Speaking Africa. 
He began his career with the Noble Group 
in Hong Kong and London.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
22
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
22
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (CONTINUED)
Nasim 
Devji
Director
Age 66
Nationality Kenyan
Background Banking, Accounting
Appointment Director since  
March 21, 2012
Mrs. Devji is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of England and 
Wales, a Fellow of the Kenya Institute of 
Bankers, a Member of the Institute of 
Directors (Kenya) and an Associate of the 
Institute of Taxation (United Kingdom).
 
She serves as the Managing Director and 
Group Chief Executive Officer of Diamond 
Trust Bank (DTB). Mrs. Devji is a Director of 
DTB Tanzania, DTB Uganda, DTB Burundi, 
Jubilee Insurance Burundi and Diamond 
Trust Insurance Agency Limited.
Michael  
Turner
Director
Age 61 
Nationality British
Background Finance, Accounting
Appointment Director since  
March 26, 2015
Mr. Turner, holds a first class degree in Civil 
Engineering. He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England & Wales. 
 
He is the Managing Director of Actis Kenya 
Limited and is responsible for Actis’s fund 
management business in East Africa. 
Mr. Turner has a deep understanding of 
Private Equity investment in agribusiness, 
financial 
services, 
real 
estate 
and 
infrastructure throughout Sub Saharan 
Africa. Prior to joining Actis, Michael worked 
in investment banking in London for 
Lehman Brothers and Kleinwort Benson, 
having started his career with Price 
Waterhouse.
Kiprono 
Kittony
Director
Age 55 
Nationality Kenyan
Background Law, Commerce
Appointment Director since  
May 30, 2018
Mr. Kittony, holds a Bachelor of Commerce 
(Bcomm), Bachelor of Law (LL.B) both from 
the University of Nairobi and a Global 
Executive MBA from the United States 
International University (USIU). 
He is the immediate former National 
Chairman of the Kenya National Chamber 
of Commerce & Industry, the premiere 
business 
membership 
organization 
in 
Kenya. He is an established entrepreneur 
and business leader having served in 
several capacities including being the 
immediate past Chairman of the Media 
Owners Association, an influential lobby 
group of Kenyan media. He has been 
widely credited with the revival of the Kenya 
National Chamber of Commerce & Industry 
which has been restored to its past glory 
through a series of transformative initiatives 
undertaken during his tenure. 
He serves as the chair of the Credit 
Reference Bureau Kenya Limited, AAR 
Insurance Limited, Mtech Limited and 
Radio Africa Group (which he co-founded in 
2000). He serves on the Business Advocacy 
Fund amongst others, and also sits on 
the advisory council of International Fund 
for Health in Africa (IFHA) an Amsterdam 
based private equity fund and is one of two 
representatives in the Global Council  of the 
World Chambers Federation.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
23
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
23
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (CONTINUED)
Risper
Alaro
Director
Age 45
Nationality Kenyan
Background Finance, Accounting
Appointment  Director since  
May 30, 2018
Ms. Alaro, holds an MBA in Finance from 
the United States International University - 
Africa and a Bachelor’s Degree in Business 
Management from Moi University. She is 
a fellow of the Association of Chartered 
Certified Accountants (ACCA), a member of 
the Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
of Kenya (ICPAK), an International Coach 
Federation Associate Certified Coach (ACC), 
and a Certified Executive Leadership Coach. 
She is a fellow of the Archbishop Desmond 
Tutu Africa Leadership Fellowship. 
She also serves as a Non-Executive Director 
on the Board of Bank of Kigali, and is a 
practicing Executive Leadership Coach. She 
previously served Centum Group PLC as 
Managing Director of one of its subsidiaries; 
Centum Business Solutions, and as the 
Group Finance & Operations Director.
Isis 
Nyongo
Director
Age 42 
Nationality Kenyan
Background E-Commerce & IT
Appointment Director since  
May 30, 2019
Ms. Madison holds an MBA from Harvard 
University and Bachelor of Arts degree in 
Human Biology from Stanford University.
She is a seasoned business leader with 
over fifteen (15) years’ experience in scaling 
digital and media businesses across Africa. 
She is the founder of MumsVillage and is a 
Principal at Asphalt & Ink. She previously 
held notable leadership positions on the 
Africa teams of InMobi, Google and MTV 
Networks.
She holds an MBA from Harvard University 
and a Bachelor of Ars Degree in Human 
Biology from Stanford University.
She has received several recognitions for 
her contribution to Africa’s entrepreneurial 
ecosystem among them Top 20 Women by 
Forbes Africa and recognized as a Young 
Global Leader by the World Economic 
Forum.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
24
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
24
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Geoffrey Odundo 
Chief Executive
Kuria Waithaka
Company Secretary 
and Chief Legal Officer
Lucy Kamar
Head Human 
Resources
Jane Kiarie
Chief Finance Officer
David Wainaina
Chief Operating Officer
Terrence Adembesa
Chief Officer, 
Derivatives Market
Loise Wangui
Head Regulatory Affairs
Paul Ngaragari
Chief Internal Auditor
Irungu Wagemma
Head Business 
Development
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
24

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
25
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
25
NSE 2019 
Highlights
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
25

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
26
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
26
UN Global Compact Board Member Ms. Flora 
Mutahi (second left) is joined by the NSE 
Chief Executive Mr. Geoffrey Odundo (left), 
NSE Board member Ms. Risper Alaro 
(second from right) and IFC Corporate 
Governance Programme lead Mr. Stefan Handoyo 
to Ring the Bell to commemorate the 2019 
International Women’s Day. 
(From left) NSE Chief Executive Mr. Geoffrey 
Odundo, Former CMA Chief Executive Officer Mr. 
Paul Muthaura and the Central Bank of Kenya 
Governor Dr. Patrick Njoroge review the revised 
listing rules incorporating listing requirements for 
Green Bonds. 
In commemoration of the 2019 International Women’s 
Day, the NSE joined over 70 stock Exchanges globally 
to Ring the Bell for Gender Equality on March 8, 
2019. The  annual  event held in partnership with 
International Finance Corporation, UN Sustainable Stock 
Exchanges (SSE) Initiative, UN Global Compact and the UN 
Women is aimed at raising awareness of the fundamental 
importance of gender equality to both business growth 
and sustainable economic development.  
The ceremony culminated with a full day executive 
training that brought together over 80 women in senior 
management positions in various companies in Kenya. 
On February 5, 2019, the NSE launched revised listing 
rules incorporating  listing requirements for Green 
Bonds on the NSE. The new listing rules now enable the 
NSE to offer a new asset class to issuers and investors in 
line with our commitment to diversify investment 
products  as well as tap into the growing global Green 
Bond market.  
Green Bonds are fixed income instruments, whose 
proceeds are used to finance or refinance new or existing 
projects, which generate climate or other environmental 
benefits that conform to green guidelines and standards.  
2019 NSE HIGHLIGHTS
The training dubbed,  Future Women CEOs and Board 
Members, was aimed at growing the number of women in 
corporate leadership in Kenya through capacity building. 
It sought  to leverage  on women’s unique  abilities for 
driving business growth and efficiency. Additionally, the 
training highlighted key opportunities and challenges 
women are likely to encounter on their journey to 
corporate leadership.  
As a member of the SSE, the NSE is committed to 
undertaking strategic initiatives to realize UN Sustainable 
Development Goal Five (SDG 5) of achieving gender 
equality and empowering all women and girls. 
Green Bonds will play a critical role in mobilizing domestic 
resources and international capital earmarked exclusively 
for environmentally beneficial investments to support 
the country’s transition to a sustainable economy. Green 
Bonds will also enable investors balance financial returns 
with environmental benefits whilst hedging against 
climate change risk.  
Green bonds issuance has gained traction globally as a 
means of enhancing issuer reputation and broadening 
the investor base, as investors are increasingly 
recognizing the impact of climate change and other 
sustainability factors on financial returns. 
1. NSE Rings the Bell for Gender Equality
2. NSE Incorporates Listing Requirements for Green Instruments in its Listing Rules

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
27
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
27
3. East Africa Capital Markets Day 
4. NSE Becomes the Second Exchange in Africa to offer Derivatives Products 
Mr. Nelson Gaichuhie, CAS National 
Treasury and Planning is joined by 
industry stakeholders as he rings the bell 
to mark the commencement of trading of 
Derivatives products at the NSE
The East African Securities Exchanges Association 
(EASEA) in partnership with the Rwanda Stock Exchange 
hosted the inaugural East Africa Capital Markets Day in 
Kigali, Rwanda on 23rd and  24th   May 2019.  
The  two  day conference held under the theme, 
“Showcasing East Africa’s Economic vibrancy and the 
capital market’s place within the region’’ brought together 
On July 11, 2019, the  NSE launched NEXT Derivatives 
Market, becoming the second Exchange in Africa to offer 
Exchange traded  derivatives. The launch enabled the 
NSE to commence the trading of Single Stock and Index 
Futures.  
The launch of  the NEXT  Derivatives Market  was  a 
significant milestone in the growth and deepening of our 
capital markets in line with the provisions of the Capital 
Markets  Master Plan  and our strategy of diversifying 
our offering to investors. The market now provides new 
opportunities to investors, enabling them to better 
diversify their portfolios and allow for efficient deployment 
“Showcasing East Africa’s Economic vibrancy and 
the capital market’s place within the region’’
2019 NSE HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
delegates and stakeholders from the region to explore 
various opportunities where capital markets can support 
economic growth and development in the region.  
EASEA is the regional umbrella body for Exchanges and 
clearing houses in East Africa. It plays a fundamental role 
in enhancing the regional Exchanges contribution to 
economic growth as well as facilitates skill development 
among member Exchanges. 
of capital. Furthermore, through the Derivatives Market, 
investors are now able to form expectations about 
underlying assets in order to manage price risks.  
Since 
its 
launch, 
the 
market 
has 
attracted 
domestic  investors  demonstrating  the appetite and 
potential for growth of the  product  locally. It has 
also underscored the ability and resilience of  the 
Automated Trading System to facilitate efficient end to 
end transactions on the Derivatives Market.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
28
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
28
5. Molding the next generation of Investors
6. NSE and SZSE kick-start Collaboration to enhance Investments and Support  	
    growth of Medium Sized Enterprises
Ms. Monica Njambi (left) and Ms. Beatrice Njeri 
(right) receive a cheque from the Central Bank 
of Kenya Governor Dr. Patrick Njoroge after they 
emerged the winners of the NSE 2019 Investment 
Challenge  
NSE Chief Executive, Mr. Geoffrey Odundo 
(Seated Left) and SZSE Deputy Director, Mr. XIE 
Wenhai, (Seated-Right) sign a MoU between the 
NSE and SZSE as NSE Vice-Chairman, Mr. Bob 
Karina and Mr. YU Bin from Shenzhen Securities 
Information Co. Ltd look on. 
The NSE held  its 2019 Investment Challenge between 
April  and  August 2019. The NSE Investment Challenge 
is a flagship  youth focused  public education initiative 
aimed at enhancing financial literacy among the youth 
whilst creating a savings and investment culture.  
The annual online competition is a simulation  of 
the trading of various securities listed on the NSE. During 
the competition, each participating individual or group 
receives Kshs. 3 million virtual capital to buy shares, 
bonds and other securities listed on the NSE using 
real time stock prices provided by the NSE through the 
Automated Trading System. The competition takes place 
for three months, following which participating teams are 
evaluated and awarded based on their portfolio returns. 
In October 2019, the NSE and the Shenzhen 
Stock Exchange (SZSE) signed  a  Memorandum  of 
Understanding to  establish the China-Kenya Capital 
Market Service Initiative (the “China-Kenya Initiative”). The 
aim is connecting the investor community and companies 
in both countries to allow for capital formation. The 
initiative will enable the Kenyan capital market showcase 
its products and services to Chinese investors and vice 
versa. It will also enhance relationships between China 
2019 NSE HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
The competition leverages on increased mobile phone 
and internet penetration to expose the youth to the 
investment process as well as generate interest for stock 
market investment among the youth demographic who 
make up to 75% of our total population. 
During the competition, the NSE offers training on 
products and services offered by the market to young 
people  through campus visits across the country. 
Since its inception, the NSE Investment Challenge 
has attracted over 120,000 participants equipping 
them with  fundamental skills for growth and personal 
development.  
and Kenya stakeholders improving understanding of 
both markets.  
The two Exchanges also launched the Ibuka  and 
V-Next Connect partnership-  a joint initiative aimed 
at promoting cross-border growth for companies in 
both programs during the Kenya China Capital Markets 
Day held on October 15, 2019. 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
29
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
29
7. NSE and Partners Publish a Report   	
   on Gender Equality in the Work Place
(Left to Right) Ms. Diana Van Maasdjik, CEO 
Equileap, Hon. Rachel Shebesh, CAS Ministry 
of Public Service Youth and Gender, Ms. Andia 
Chakava, Director NFNV, Ms. Isis Nyo’ngo, NSE 
Director, Mr. Geoffrey Odundo, CEO NSE during 
the launch of the report in Nairobi
The NSE, Equileap and New Faces New Voices partnered 
to publish a report on gender equality in the workplace. 
The report dubbed Gender Equality in Kenya : Assessing 
60 leading  companies on workplace equality  was 
launched on November 13, 2019 and offers a ranking 
and a comparative analysis of gender equality across all 
listed companies in Kenya, which are some of the largest 
employers in the country. 
The 
survey 
placed 
special 
focus 
on 
listed 
companies’ performance on gender equality using four 
metrics including gender balance across the workforce, 
senior management and board of directors, gender pay 
gap, parental leave, anti-sexual harassment policies and 
supplier diversity policies. 
Kenyan companies scored an average of 26% which is 
comparable to the Canadian companies’ average score 
(27%). According to the report, women make up to 43% 
of the workforce. Only 10% of companies have gender 
balance in senior management and their boards. Only 
5% of companies have a female chair. 
Standard Chartered Kenya was the top-ranked company 
in Kenya, with a gender equality score of 63%. It ranked 
among the top 50 companies globally which scored 61% 
or above,  in Equileap’s 2019 Global Gender Equality 
Report published in October 2019.  Other companies 
that performed well include; WPP Scangroup, Absa Bank 
Kenya PLC  and  East African Breweries.   
The survey which is part of NSE’s Leadership Dialogue 
Series  created an opportunity for companies to gain 
insights on initiatives to enhance gender equality in their 
respective institutions.  
8. The NSE 2019 Charity Trading Day
Hon. Sicily Kariuki, Former Cabinet Secretary 
Ministry of Health (Seated Left) makes a trade 
during the 2019 Charity Trading Day as Mr. Bob 
Karina, NSE Vice Chairman (Standing Right), 
Mr. Kuria Waithaka, NSE Company Secretary 
and Chief Legal Officer (Second from Right) and 
Mr. David Kanyi, CMA Head, Market Deepening 
(Left) look on. 
The NSE raised Kshs. 8.7 Million in cash and in kind 
during its 5th  annual Charity Trading Day bringing the 
total amount raised over the course of 5 years to Kshs. 
38 Million. The flagship event took place on December 
6, 2019 and was graced by Hon. Sicily Kariuki, Cabinet 
Secretary, Ministry of Health.  
The theme  in 2019  was Health,  with a specific focus 
on 
cancer 
prevention 
and 
management. 
Funds 
raised  were  channeled  towards enhancing the cancer 
registry system in the country. The NSE supported the 
National Cancer Institute of Kenya establish a robust 
registry system, that  will support necessary research 
aimed at cancer control and reduction in Kenya. Other 
beneficiaries of the 2019 Charity Trading Day include; 
Borana Conservancy, SOS Children’s Home, Nature 
Kenya and Joy Children’s Home. 
The  Charity  Trading Day is NSE’s  flagship Corporate 
Social  Investment  event that brings together various 
capital markets stakeholders, known personalities, 
market participants and the entire financial community 
in Kenya to a charity event that seeks to raise funds in 
support of various causes in the country.  
During the event, known personalities and other guests 
make calls to investors on behalf of stock brokers and 
encourage them to make trades on that day. 
2019 NSE HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
30
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
30
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018
37
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
30

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
31
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
31
ENTERPRISE RISK (ERM)  
FRAMEWORK
Background
The objective of the NSE’s Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) framework is to protect shareholders’ value in 
order to enhance NSE’s competitive advantage, improve 
business performance and optimize risk management 
and compliance value. The framework is aligned to 
ISO 31000:2018 Risk Management Guidelines, COSO 
Enterprise Risk Management 2017 as well the applicable 
laws, regulations and guidelines. The NSE has succeeded 
in applying the risk framework to such an extent as to 
make risk management not only a reporting and oversight 
obligation, but a management discipline. In support 
of this, an internal risk working group was established 
in 2018 and in 2019, NSE joined World Federation of 
Exchanges Enterprise Risk Management Working Group, 
to further support the formal risk reporting structures 
and to drive risk management into the organisational 
practice
Roles and Responsibilities
NSE Board and Risk Committee
The NSE Board has constituted the Audit, Risk & 
Compliance Committee to help it to discharge its duties 
and responsibilities with regard to risk management. The 
committee provides enterprise risk management (ERM) 
oversight by monitoring the implementation of the NSE 
risk framework and driving corrective actions based on 
the risk reporting provided.
NSE Management
The NSE executive and its management structures are 
responsible for applying the defined risk management 
process across the enterprise. This is done to enable 
management to identify potential events that, if they 
occur, will affect the NSE in terms of achieving its 
enterprise objectives. Risks must be managed within the 
NSE’s set risk appetite (Risk appetite is a measure and 
allocation of the amount of risk that the NSE is willing 
to accept in pursuit of its strategy. The NSE will only 
tolerate risks that permit us to: achieve our strategic 
business objectives; comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations; conduct our business in a safe and sound 
manner; and protect and/or enhance our value)
Chief Executive Office
The Chief Executive Office, specifically the Risk, 
Compliance and Strategy Department, is the owner of 
the NSE risk framework and spearheads implementation 
and reporting for ERM. This includes:
•	
Defining and implementing the risk process
•	
Facilitating risk workshops with all organisational 
areas at least annually;
•	
Ensuring updates to risk reporting at least quarterly
•	
Ensuring risk actions are updated and tracked;
•	
Compiling and presenting report-backs to line 
management;
•	
Providing formal risk reporting to the nse executive 
committee;
•	
Providing risk reporting to the risk committee of the 
board; and
•	
Entrenching risk management as an effective 
management tool in the enterprise.
Risk Management Approach
Risk management is conducted using the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO) framework guidelines and is in line with principles 
defined in ISO 31000. Risks are analysed in the context 
of the NSE risk framework and cover the following 
categories:
Operational risk – The risk of loss resulting from 
inadequate or failed internal processes, people and 
systems, or from external events, in the following areas:
a.	 Human capital related;
b.	 Technology and systems;
c.	 Information security;
d.	 Fraud and theft;
e.	 Procurement and third party;
f.	
Contracts management;
g.	 Legal and compliance;
h.	 Business disruption and continuity;
i.	
Regulation of markets;
j.	
Market operations;
k.	 NSE client concentration;
l.	
Strategic arrangements; and
m.	 Reputation.
Finance risk – This is an umbrella term for any risk 
associated with any form of financial management of 
the enterprise such as market risk, credit risk, price risk, 
liquidity risk, capital risk, etc. 
Strategic risk – This risk is the impact on the 
organisation arising from adverse business decisions 
and/or the lack of responsiveness to changes.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
32
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
32
Black swan risk – Anticipating and considering low probability (not identified as a possible emerging risk on its risk 
radar) and catastrophic impact events as part of the enterprise’s risk approach. 
A good example of a black swan risk is the Covid-19 pandemic whose impacts are catastrophic and their occurrence are 
extremely rare. Management of a black swan risk requires adequate business continuity planning measures which NSE is 
happy to report have been operationalized successfully.
Risk Management Governance Model 
NSE has successfully deployed the three lines of defense model with Board oversight under the Board Audit, Risk and 
Compliance Committee. See illustration below of how the risk governance model is structured.
Board
EXCO
Risk 
Management 
Committee
Business 
Areas
Governance 
and Risk
Including business continuity 
management and information security
Risk reporting
Management 
Reporting
Risk Reporting
Risk Reporting
Management Reporting
Risk Reporting
Independent Escalation Path
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) FRAMEWORK 
(CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
33
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
33
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) FRAMEWORK 
(CONTINUED)
Our Lines of Defense
Independent challenge to the levels of 
assurance provided by business opera-
tions and oversight fanctions
3rd Line of Defence
• External Audit
• Internal Audit
• Other independent review
Oversight functions who also set 
directions. deﬁne policy and procedures, 
and have functional overshight
2nd Line of Defence
• Oversight functions
• Policies & procedures
Business operation which perform day to 
day risk management activity
1st Line of Defence
• Self - assurance
• Business units/teams/  
Processes
Assure 
/Monitor
Assure 
/Monitor
Perform
Self 
Assurance
Perform
Assurance Over 
Risk Management
Internal control Assesment 
(Business Improvement Focus
Core Risk 
Management
The above risk governance model at NSE can be broken down as follows:
•	
Business areas are required to provide risk reporting to the risk team in the Risk, Compliance & Strategy Department.
•	
An enterprise-wide risk report is then compiled by the risk team and presented to NSE Management for comment 
and ratification before the report is submitted to the Risk Management Committee of the Board.
•	
The Risk Management Committee of the Board, in turn, provides assurance to the NSE Board on both the 
acceptability of the NSE’s risk profile as well as the effective functioning of the risk process.
The NSE has also formed a Risk Working Group that consists of selected staff members, based on their divisional 
responsibilities and the consequential impact of these on the NSE risk profile. This working group directs and 
guides the risk team in setting robust, appropriate and business focused risk practices. Also, the NSE is part of 
the World Federation of Exchange (WFE) Enterprise Risk Management Working Group which provides platform for 
risk benchmarking, sharing ideas and best risk practices globally and institutionalize in NSE business processes for 
continued value creation process listed below.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
34
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
34
NSE enables value creation by providing a trusted and 
well-regulated financial market infrastructure to support 
the economy. Our value creation process is embedded 
in our mission - Linking capital to opportunity to enhance 
stakeholder value.
Core focus of value creation
The ongoing relevance as an exchange and our ability to 
create long-term value for stakeholders, are dependent 
on various forms of capital/areas of values creation in our 
finances, technologies, brand equity, talent stakeholder 
relationships and sustainability.
Our Finances
NSE PLC’s funding is sourced from shareholders and 
internally generated income. These funds are used to run 
NSE’s operations with a view to generate profits.  As at 
December 31, 2019, these stood at Issued Share Capital 
of Sh. 1,038 million, Share Premium of Sh. 277 million and 
Retained Earnings of Sh. 732 million. Financial resources 
are required to operate the business and support 
growth, expansion and innovation. NSE balances the 
need to distribute value to investors through a balanced 
return to shareholders, reinvestment and reduced prices 
to clients.
Our Technology
At  the  core  of  NSE’s  operations  is  a  robust  ICT 
foundation. This comprises three world class trading 
systems for equities (Automated Trading System (ATS)) 
bonds (Broker Back Office (BBO)) and Derivatives, 
coupled with comprehensive software, hardware and 
disaster recovery resources. 
The equities trading infrastructure was upgraded and 
went live in October 2019. This upgrade came with 
enhanced and new capabilities:
•	
Ability to operate independently from CSD during 
trading hours
•	
Scalability – can be scaled via addition of compute 
resources to support higher throughput if required.
•	
Multi market and asset support
•	
Highly customizable design for order types, market 
sessions, index setup etc.
•	
Support for short selling/Lending and borrowing, 
market making and day trading
As a technology-driven entity, our key capital consists 
of the IT systems and infrastructure used for securely 
processing transactions between buyers and sellers, and 
processing analytical data to support our information 
services, as well as regulating our Primary and Secondary 
Markets.
Implementing world-class technology and remaining at 
the cutting edge of industry advances are core to our 
business model. Investment in new systems and related 
employee skills can maximize our outputs and enhance 
outcomes for our brand, people and stakeholders.
Our Stakeholder Relationships
NSE actively engages with its key stakeholder groups. 
For example, the Green Bonds Program Kenya (GBPK) 
has been a key partner in the structuring of the first 
green bond product launched in October 2, 2019. The 
bond, issued by Acorn group was subscribed by 85% and 
cross-listed in the Nairobi Securities Exchange and the 
London Stock Exchange. 
NSE also works closely with the United Nations 
Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (UN SSE) to 
encourage sustainable running of stock exchanges. 
It also sits in several working groups of the (WFE), 
influencing global policies affecting world exchanges.
The NSE Investment Challenge and the annual Charity 
Trading Day are the flagship projects in Social Investment. 
We are able to respond to the needs of our stakeholders 
and reinforce confidence in our brand because we 
have reliable systems, our people are skilled and client-
centered, and we apply our financial resources efficiently.
Our Innovation
Innovation is a core value of the NSE. The Company’s 
innovative capacity is demonstrated by the design 
and launch of M-Akiba, the world’s first mobile traded 
bond. NSE continues to explore other global disruptive 
technologies in a bid to enhance its offering to investors. 
The NSE’s brand includes the technologies and systems 
in place and the intellectual know-how we need to 
facilitate an efficient and world-class market. The NSE 
brand relies on technology delivery and positive relations 
with our stakeholders. 
VALUE CREATION PROCESS

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
35
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
35
Our Talent (People)
NSE takes pride in its talented staff whose aggregated knowledge and experience enable the company to grow and 
achieve more. The NSE is a specialized organization requiring competent, motivated and diverse employees with 
specialist skills in financial markets technology, governance, risk and financial products trading.
We work to attract, develop and retain high caliber employees who are instrumental in the execution of our strategy 
and delivery of world-class markets. 
57%
Male
43%
Female
Value Creation Schedule
2019
2018
Variance
Sh ‘000
Sh ‘000
%
Total Income
715,638
782,402
(8.5)
Stakeholder contribution
Taxes paid to Government
46,900
 57,491
(18.4)
Shareholders dividend paid
127,155
77,850
63.3
Payment to suppliers
238,382
217,750
9.4
Human capital
198,635
228,170
(12.9)
Note: Taxes to Government exclude VAT and withholding tax paid for supplier invoices
VALUE CREATION PROCESS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
36
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
36
The NSE strategy 2015-2019 which had three outstanding pillars below came to a close in December 2019.
Pillar 1
Drive revenue growth 
and diversiﬁcation
• Achieve 40% YoY revenue growth
 
• Achieve 88 equity listing (69 on MIMS 
and 19 on GEMS
• Launch and scale new products 
including REITS, ETF’s, derivatives 
(from 5% to 12& of total revenues by 
2017)
• Achieve 40% and 25% CAGR in 
equities and bonds turnover between 
2015 - 2019
• Launch technological innovation for 
day trading, mobile and online 
trading
Pillar 2
Build reputation as a 
trusted company and 
investment destination 
of choice
• Transform relationship with CMA and 
Treasury
 
• Develop and execute strategic 
communications campaign on NSE 
transformation (Q1 2015)
• Expand regional and global engage-
ment, including WFE member status, 
MSCI ranking by Q1 2016
Pillar 3
Strengthen 
Organizational 
Capabilities and Talent 
management 
• Invest in key sources gaps - recruit 
business development and senior 
external aﬀairs by Q4 2015
 
• Strengthen governance and develop 
full SRO capability by Q3 2016
• Strengthen our people value proposi-
tion including remuneration and 
management review
• Build a culture based on excellence, 
transparency and inclusivity
STRATEGY

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
37
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
37
The following were major milestones achieved.
•	
Product development - During this tenure, NSE was able to deliver on four new products- Exchange Traded Funds, 
Real Estate Investment Trusts, M-Akiba and the Derivatives market.
•	
ATS upgrade in October 2019.
•	
Attainment of full WFE membership status in 2018.
For the period 2020-2024 the Company embarked on the process of formulating a new strategy together with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) as a consultant. 
What are some of the challenges NSE faced in the last Strategic Plan and how has NSE addressed them in the new 
Strategy? 
To be a reflection of the market, NSE strategy 2020-24 will be driven by a sustainable business growth anchored in 
the following initiatives:
NSE Challenges
Response (Initiatives)
Lack of new listings
Low uptake by local retail 
market
Overreliance on trading income 
(75% of the total income) 
Inadequate performace of 
listed companies
• Enhance Market Liquidity
• Increase number of listed companies
• Develop derivatives and support growth of commodities market
• Diversiﬁcation of revenue streams
• Improve local market participation
• Diversify distribution channels
Below are snapshots of the key features of the new strategy:
STRATEGY (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
38
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
38
 NSE 2020 - 2024 Strategic Direction
 NSE 2020 - 2024 Strategic Pillars and Objectives
Sustainable 
Business 
Growth
Operational 
Excellence
Strategic 
partnership
People
Sustainable 
Business 
Growth
Operational 
Excellence
Strategic 
partnership
Mission: Linking capital to opportunity to enhance 
stakeholder value
Vision: To be the leading exchange and the investment 
partner of choice through providing eﬃcient invest-
ment and capital raising services in Africa and globally
Integrity 
Excellence 
Team-Work 
Sustainability 
Accountability 
To execute on the 2024 vision, NSE has identiﬁed four strategic pillars and eight objectives it will focus on in the next strate-
gic planning cycle. These strategic pillars and organize related initiatives that work together to deliver speciﬁc, valuable 
business objectives.
Grow revenue and 
contribute towards 
achieving MSCI emerging 
market status
Build and  maintain 
mutually beneﬁcial 
strategic partnerships
Strategic talent 
management
• Improve operational 
eﬃciencies
• Strengthen enterprise 
risk management and 
compliance
• Develop NSE as a center 
of innovation
• Cost optimization
• Eﬀective market oversight
People
STRATEGY (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
39
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
39
A brief description of each risk and mitigating strategies are provided below;
Execution Risk 
Lack of focus on strategy 
execution
arrow-alt-circle-right
Assign responsibility of the strategy to respective role holders who 
will be accountable for implementation
Link the performance management with strategy KPI's
Communicate the strategy throughout entire organisation
Evaluate the implementation of the strategy on a quarterly basis and 
make readjustments as needed
Continuously review the organization structure to ensure the NSE 
has the right capabilities to execute the strategy
Concentration Risk 
Over dependency on 
specific product offerings 
and counters
arrow-alt-circle-right
Customize NSE's product offering to meet the needs of the 
customers in order to increase uptake
Engage with CMA and other market participants in marketing 
initiatives
Reputation Risk 
One-off incidences or 
miscommunication by 
the media that negatively 
affect the NSE's reputation
arrow-alt-circle-right
Work closely with CMA to enforce regulations and address 
wrongdoings
Adopt a proper communication strategy with CMA and CDSC to 
ensure aligned press briefings
Strengthen media relations to ensure consultation of information 
before it is publicized
Dependency Risk 
Not going live on 
system upgrade, limited 
cooperation by key 
stakeholders
arrow-alt-circle-right
Ensure system upgrade before January 2020 as key to strategy 
execution
Dedicate NSE board members/ExCo to manage relationships with 
key stakeholders
Engage market players early and often to gather input and obtain 
buy-in for regulatory changes and product development
Market Risk 
Macro economic or 
political and security 
events cause further drop 
in market activity
arrow-alt-circle-right
While NSE has made progress in product diversification, the uptake 
of thee products have been low. Therefore NSE should develop a 
marketing strategy and engage with key stakeholders e.g.. CMA and 
market participants in creating public awareness to increase uptake 
of the product offering by local investors to reduce the impact of 
negative dips in market
STRATEGY (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
40
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
40
NSE  
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
41
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
41
STATEMENT ON NSE’S 
APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
41
As we focused on pursuing our purpose, our business 
and operating environment has drastically changed. 
Investors, issuers, employees and other key stakeholders 
are keen on sustainable business models that are driven 
by a conscious effort to create significant change within 
our own company and the community in which we 
operate in. 
Guided by this thought process, we made a commitment 
to support a sustainable economy through undertaking 
various strategic interventions. As we commenced the 
(2014-2019) strategic period, we had a resounding vision 
of playing a bigger role in supporting our country and 
communities thrive and prosper. We made a conscious 
effort to run our business in a sustainable but socially 
progressive way and we aligned our initiatives to the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
This commitment to sustainability was hence enshrined 
in our (2014-2019) strategic period’s core values of 
supporting an ethical business, maintaining the highest 
levels of integrity and confidentiality and embracing a 
culture of excellence and innovation adopted through 
an enterprise wide approach.
Geofrey O. Odundo
Chief Executive
Since our inception, the 
NSE has been part of 
Kenya’s growth story. We 
have continuously invested 
strategically in making Kenya 
the ultimate financial services 
hub in East Africa connecting 
opportunities to capital 
through provision of globally 
recognized capital markets 
infrastructure and services. 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
42
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
42
The NSE identified key areas of need in which the Group 
held expertise and had the opportunity to create a 
greater impact. These areas which included Gender 
Equality and women empowerment, Financial Inclusion, 
Financial Education, Conservation and Community 
Engagement were then embraced as key areas of focus 
on sustainability  for the business.
To enhance implementation, we joined like-minded 
institutions together through which we leveraged on 
synergies to enhance our impact among communities. 
This included joining the United Nations Global Compact, 
a voluntary initiative that seeks to implement universal 
sustainability principles and to take steps to support the 
UN Global Goals. Equally, in March 2016, we signed the 
Women Empowerment Principles (WEPS) committing to 
a set of ideologies offering guidance on how to empower 
women in the workplace, marketplace and community.
We have made great progress. On gender equality and 
women empowerment, we have taken a leadership 
role in spearheading equality while promoting women 
empowerment in Kenya. Our strategy has involved 
advocating for more women leaders at both Board and 
Management level in Kenya’s corporate sector. Over 
the last five years the number of women in leadership 
has increase. We have empowered women in informal 
sectors through various leadership and financial training 
programs.  Our efforts in this endeavor have attracted 
Government attention and earned the NSE recognition 
by the Ministry of Gender and Youth Affairs as well as 
other key players in the market. 
__________
"On gender equality and women 
empowerment, we have taken a 
leadership role in spearheading 
equality while promoting women 
empowerment in Kenya."
__________
We have adopted a community engagement strategy 
that enables us identify and provide solutions to the 
communities most pressing needs. In 2014, we set up 
the Charity Trading Day, a charity event aimed at raising 
funds to support various initiatives in the country. We 
have made significant contribution to the growth of our 
communities contributing over Kshs. 38 Million to fund 
education, health, wildlife and conservation as well as 
social welfare.
The youth are the leaders of tomorrow and a reflection 
of the bold workforce that will propel our country’s next 
economic frontier. We have invested heavily in enhancing 
financial literacy among the youth while cultivating a 
savings and investment culture. 
As we commence the implementation of our new 2020 
- 2024 strategy, we are keen on continuing to offer 
the best capital raising services in Africa while creating 
the most impact on our communities. The concluded 
strategy period has enabled us identify areas where we 
have made impact as well as highlight where we need to 
work harder.  Our focus areas will be driven by society’s 
most urgent needs and guided by the Group’s overall 
strategy on sustainability.
During this period, we are keen on setting up a CSR 
function and the NSE foundation that will continue 
to enhance our impact and facilitate fund raising and 
partnership for various initiatives. Additionally, we will 
continue to leverage on strategic partnerships with 
both private and social enterprises to support growth. I 
am confident that an investment in our community is a 
return to our shareholders and stakeholders.
Geoffrey Odundo
Chief Executive
STATEMENT ON NSE’S APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 
(CONTINUED)
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
42

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
43
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
43
As a leading Securities Exchange, 
we have taken a conscious effort 
to enhance financial literacy for 
economic growth and development. 
Core 
to 
this 
endeavor, 
is 
a 
commitment to nurture the next 
generation of NSE Investors.
Financial Literacy has the potential 
to increase demand for formal 
financial services in developing 
economies. 
We 
are 
confident 
that our interventions to promote 
Financial Literacy have the capacity 
to enhance Kenyans ability to 
access formal financial services thus 
ultimately boosting savings and 
investments in our market. 
Over the past 11 years, the NSE 
has been educating the youth on 
investments through the annual NSE 
Investment Challenge. The flagship 
program is an online simulation of 
trading of various securities listed on 
the NSE. Through the competition, 
the youth get a practical investing 
experience in the stock market 
using virtual capital and real time 
stock information provided by the 
NSE through the Automated Trading 
System. The youth are mentored 
and 
thereafter 
evaluated 
and 
The NSE 2019 Investment Challenge Awards winners 
are joined on stage by NSE, Central Bank of Kenya, 
Kenya Association of Brokers and Investments Banks 
and Smart Youth leadership teams as they receive their 
award
awarded based on their portfolio 
returns. The program has been 
critical in enhancing financial literacy 
amongst the youth while enhancing 
confidence to participate in the 
stock market. Since its launch the 
program has impacted over 150,000 
youth. 
Young 
people 
across 
various 
secondary, universities and colleges 
also get an opportunity to interact 
with NSE staff and representatives 
through sensitization visits to the 
NSE. The training sessions on the 
stock market provide the NSE with 
an opportunity to mould our next 
generation of Investors.
The NSE also promotes expert 
training aimed at enhancing the 
skills, expertise and proficiency 
among players in the market.
 
2. Financial Inclusion 
The 
NSE 
has 
continued 
to 
consolidate its leadership position 
as a frontier market of choice for 
both local and foreign investors. 
Despite Kenya’s financial inclusion 
index being high compared to other 
markets in Africa, on account of 
growth in mobile money platforms, 
investment has remained relatively 
low. In view of this, the NSE in 
partnership with key stakeholders 
in Government, financial services 
and 
communication 
providers 
embarked on a journey that sought 
to grow access to formal systems of 
investments among Kenyan retail 
investors.
The launch of the world’s first 
mobile 
traded 
Government 
infrastructure bond, M-Akiba, was 
a key achievement for the Kenyan 
capital markets. Through the bond 
traded exclusively on the mobile 
phone, the NSE has registered over 
500,000 new bond investors who 
can now save and earn interest 
in Government bonds from the 
comfort of their mobile phones.
The bonds low entry point of Kshs. 
3000 and its convenient access that 
leverages on mobile technology has 
been key in enhancing its growth 
and enabling us enhance financial 
inclusion and democratize access 
to the capital market in Kenya. Since 
its launch, the bond has raised Kshs. 
1.05 Billion and paid out Kshs. 98.56 
Million as interest to investors.
 
1. Promoting Financial Education for Economic  	
   	
    Empowerment
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
44
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
44
3. Sustainable Finance 
Central Bank of Kenya Governor and 
Patron of the Kenya Green Bond Program  
Dr. Patrick Njoroge shares his remarks 
during the launch of the listing rules 
incorporating the listing requirements for 
Green Instruments.
Climate change continues to pose a threat to economic 
growth and development. As a country, a majority of 
our value chain and GDP is directly or indirectly affected 
by climatic conditions. Climate change has evolved to 
become a credit problem to countries prone to extreme 
weather patterns and natural disasters propelled by 
global warming as leading credit rating agencies weigh 
on climate change risks in evaluating credit worthiness. 
As a market, we have committed to creating a platform 
to facilitate public and private sector investments in 
sustainable environment. We are aligning our market 
with sustainable development through the provision of 
asset classes that provide investors an opportunity to 
balance financial returns with environmental benefits. 
Additionally, the new instrument will offer investors a 
unique ability to hedge against climate policy risk.
We completed the development of the necessary 
framework that will facilitate the development of a vibrant 
green bond market including launching new listing 
rules that incorporate listing requirements for green 
instruments paving the way for finance and investments 
that are earmarked exclusively for environmentally 
friendly projects.
Globally, investors have grown considerable interest in 
Green bonds with issuance in 2019 hitting a record USD 
263 Billion.
4. Promoting Gender Equality and   	
    Women Empowerment
SDG 5: Gender Equality
Target: Ensure women’s full and effective 
participation and equal opportunities for 
leadership at all levels of decision making 
in political economic and public life. Ensure 
accessibility of capital markets services to 
female entrepreneurs and investors.
NSE’s Commitment: Promote Gender Equality 
among listed companies.
SDG13: Climate Action
Target: Improve education, awareness-raising and human and insti-
tutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact 
reduction and early warning.
Target: Create and Promote investment products that promote 
awareness or mobilize capital earmarked to support projects with 
benefits to the environment.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
45
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
45
4. Promoting Gender Equality and   	
    Women Empowerment  (Continued)
Over the years, we have continued to pursue a 
leadership role in spearheading gender equality among 
listed companies. Inspired by the promise of sustainable 
development Goal 5, we are on the forefront in ensuring 
both women and men in the Kenyan capital markets 
enjoy the same opportunities and are accorded equal 
rights and obligations.
We have also placed special focus on enhancing women’s 
access to both leadership and management positions 
in Kenya’s largest enterprises listed on the NSE. This 
has been achieved through highlighting financial, risk 
management and profitability benefits that companies 
stand to benefit by leveraging on women’s unique 
abilities to enhance business growth. 
Over the course of 2019, we undertook various 
programs that sought to empower women among our 
listed companies as well as help shape policies that will 
promote women empowerment.
In commemoration of the 2019 International Women’s 
Day, the NSE joined over 70 stock Exchanges globally to 
ring the bell for Gender Equality to raise awareness on 
the importance of Gender Equality to both business and 
sustainable development. 
Additionally, the NSE partnered with Equileap, a leading 
data and insights provider and New Faces New Voices to 
publish a report on the state of Gender Equality among 
Kenyan listed companies. Through the report, companies 
gained insights on initiatives to enhance gender equality 
in their respective institutions.
5. Employee Development
SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive 
and sustainable economic growth, 
full and productive employment 
and decent work for all
Target: Protect labour rights and promote 
safe and secure working environments for 
all workers, including migrant workers, in 
particular women migrants, and those in 
precarious employment. Substantially reduce 
the proportion of youth not in employment, 
education or training
NSE’s Commitment: Promote a progressive, 
inclusive and respectful working environment 
for all whilst offering the youth employment 
opportunities.
As a group, we are cognizant of the fundamental role 
our employees play in supporting the Group achieve its 
strategic priorities.   Skilled, valued and engaged workers 
are the key to exponential growth in our market. They are 
a core part of our business and its future. As a business, 
we are committed to enabling our employees succeed 
both in their personal lives and professional lives.
To effectively support business growth and ensure we 
offer best services to our clients, we have developed a 
system that enables us attract a pool of highly skilled 
financial services sector experts. Additionally, through 
training and capacity building, we have been able to horn 
our staff skills in capital markets and investments.
In the year, we progressively implemented a monthly 
learning program where our workers train each other on 
their areas of expertise. This has enhanced business 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
46
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
46
5. Employee Development (Continued)
knowledge, co-operation and overall appreciation of 
different areas of the organization and prompted a 
valued-workers sentiment among various divisions.
We also continued to grow our next crop of future leaders 
through the NSE Graduate Program. The program taps 
into highly talented young graduates and trains the select 
graduates through a cross-functional strategy to better 
understand the NSE and the capital markets industry. 
The Group is keen on enhancing employee engagement 
through various programs and initiatives. Additionally, 
the Group is keen on having candid deliberations 
with our staff on issues relating to work environment, 
compensation, overtime among others. Our goal is to 
ensure every member of staff feels valued, is willingly 
ready to contribute and the feels the work environment 
enables them balance personal and career goals.
6. Community Investment
In 2014, the NSE started the 
Charity Trading Day. The annual 
community investment initiative 
has been a critical part of NSE’s 
sustainability agenda raising funds 
to support various environmental, 
humanitarian and social initiatives 
across the country.
(Left) Comedian Jason Runo and 
Television Anchor Terryanne Chebet at 
the 2019 Charity Trading Day.
Ibrahim Kinyanjui, Equities Dealer, Faida 
Investment Bank guides award winning 
recording artist Francis Amisi (Frasha) on 
how to make trades during the NSE 2019 
Charity Trading Day.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CONTINUED)
NSE Donates wheel chairs to the Association for 
the Physically Disabled of Kenya in 2019

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
47
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
47
6. Community Investment (Continued)
Through mobilization of corporate and personal 
sponsorship the Charity Trading Day has raised and 
committed funds to wildlife, conservation, education, 
health and other social and humanitarian initiatives 
transforming lives and livelihoods in Kenya. 
In 2019, the Charity Trading Day placed special focus on 
United Nations SDG 3 of promoting good health and well-
being for all at ages. It placed special focus on supporting 
the fight against cancer in Kenya through enhancing the 
cancer registry system. The NSE supported the National 
Cancer Institute of Kenya establish a robust registry 
system, that will support necessary research aimed at 
cancer control and reduction in Kenya.   
 
7. Cyber Security
Technology is a core pillar of 
our operations. Our adoption 
of technology in our end to end 
trading and data operations 
necessitates enhanced security 
measures to protect the interest 
of both investors and issuers.  
We are keen on providing utmost confidence to both 
domestic and international clients, that, activities on 
our market are protected and we have adopted a 
common goal and framework around enhancing cyber-
security across all our operations. We have ensured 
our frameworks are at par with global best practices to 
ensure maximum protection of investor information. 
The NSE is a dedicated member of the Global Exchange 
(GLEX) Cyber Security Working Group. GLEX ensures 
member Exchanges operate a secure,stable and resilient 
infrastructure. Additionally, it promotes the sharing of 
intelligence information among member Exchanges 
as well as sets best practice guidelines for market 
infrastructures designed to promote a culture of cyber 
security compliance.
8. Championing for Transparent and  	
     Efficient Capital Markets
Transparent and efficient capital 
markets are key to attracting 
and maintaining local and 
international investors whilst 
protecting the interest of 
shareholders.
The NSE has put in place effective policies and procedures 
to grow a fair, transparent and efficient capital market. The 
NSE works closely with the Capital Markets Authority and 
other regulators to ensure highest level of compliance by 
listed companies and trading participants are upheld for 
the development of a more sustainable capital market.
The NSE has fostered the disclosure of material 
information by listed companies and trading participants 
enhancing market confidence and integrity. We are 
committed to streamlining our standards to global best 
practices as we strive to integrate the NSE with global 
financial markets.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
48
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
48
MATERIAL ISSUES
Operations and IT 
David Wainaina
Chief Operating Officer
The Operations and IT Department is 
tasked with the objective of ensuring 
that the NSE continues to meet its main 
objective of providing a platform for 
trading listed securities. The department 
supports this noble objective by ensuring 
that we have in place world class trading 
and broker back office systems as 
well as packaging the market data for 
consumption by various stakeholders to 
make rational investment decisions.
The year 2019 was busy for us and we hit the ground 
running. In February, we rolled out an initiative that 
reduced the settlement cycle in Government bonds 
from 3 days to real-time. It is thus possible to buy a 
bond and own it on the same day. Equally, if an investors 
sells Government bonds, they should receive their 
money on the same day. This was achieved following 
an enhancement of the bond trading system to enable 
immediate upload of executed positions for settlement 
at the Central Bank of Kenya and took effect from March 
1, 2019. This development enabled multiple trading 
and settlement of Government bonds within the same 
trading session. This was a major milestone in our 
country and the Capital Markets. The move exceeded the 
recommended global settlement standards of T+3.  
An efficient secondary market is an important facet in 
raising money by the Government though domestic 
borrowing.  It is worth noting that the Government 
of Kenya was able to raise in excess of kes 500billon 
domestically in 2019. On the other hand the secondary 
market was vibrant, registering in excess of 600billion 
in trading activity.  We are convinced that among other 
factors this move resulted to the 16% increase in bond 
trading activities during the year. The NSE offers one of 
the most vibrant bond secondary markets in Africa and 
indeed the world. 
Before the ink dried up on bond initiatives, the 
department turned its focus on upgrading the equity 
trading platform (ATS). This was a huge project initiated 
in the year 2015 but due to its complexity, there was 
unforeseen delay. The team was prepared to make it 
work in 2019 and indeed the system was commissioned 
in October of 2019. The need for an upgraded system 
was enhanced by the need for NSE to align with national 
policies including the Capital Markets Master plan, the Big 
four Agenda and the NSE strategic objective to graduate 
from a Frontier to an emerging market status. 
The System is provided by the Millemium Technologies, 
who are part of the London Stock Exchange Group. We 
are extremely privileged as a market to be operating 
the same trading systems deployed within developed 
markets like the London Stock Exchange and the 
Johannesburg Stock Exchange. This resonates with 
the NSE strategic objective, to be the most attractive 
investment destinations in Africa.  In terms of the system 
capabilities the upgraded system is highly scalable and 
was built on an architecture that guarantees availability. 
In technical terms we say that the system has been 
hardened at the primary site. This is not withstanding 
the fact that we have a secondary disaster recovery site 
that is 40KM from the primary site. Again, this confirms 
we have achieved the recommended business continuity 
standards.
The system comes along with enhanced features geared 
towards enhancing market Liquidity. These include 
the ability to trade without validating the existence of 
securities in the depository system, CDS. This process 
is commonly known as elimination of pre-validation of 
securities. This was a big step as it enabled the market to 
achieve other liquidity enhancement features including 
short selling and day trading. Short selling is the ability 
sell securities that the investor may not have at the point 
of trading. However, the investors though their Trading 
Participants, retain the obligation to ensure there is 
settlement finality and must source for the securities 
within three days. They may buy at a cheaper price 
and make the margin or borrow the securities through 
a process known as lending and borrowing. Again this 
supported by the new system and it is a first with in the 
region. Further, the new system has the ability to support 
market making which means providing liquidity in the 
market by having a two way quote in the securities. This 
way, the security is guaranteed of a buyer or a seller at all 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
49
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
49
times and therefore market liquidity is enhanced. 
Finally, the Department was tasked with managing 
information services, which is a key asset of the Exchange. 
As such the department was able to package market 
information and distribute them through the licensed 
data vendors as well as direct subscription. We were 
able to reach out to universities and other stakeholders 
who are in need of the NSE market data. The   packaging 
was extremely effective that as a revenue stream, the 
information services product was able to return in 
excess of Kes 30M shillings. The investors were also able 
to make rational investments decisions and therefore 
this product is a win -win by both the investors and the 
Exchange.
The year was extremely engaging for the department 
and as a team, we were not surprised when the NSE was 
ranked the best performing Exchange in Sub-Saharan 
Africa by the MSCI Frontier Markets index.
MATERIAL ISSUES (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
50
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
50
Business Development
Irungu Waggema
Head Business Development
The 
NSE 
reported 
a 
steady 
and 
strong performance throughout 2019 
despite a challenging macro-economic 
environment strongly influenced by 
trade and geo-political developments. 
As per the NSE Strategic plan’s first pillar, 
a primary focus was placed on driving 
revenue growth and diversification in 
a sustainable and profitable way that 
would see the Exchange as a leading 
securities Exchange in Africa.
The Business Development team was tasked with 
introducing market aligned products that would create an 
impact for both the buy and sell side and in the process 
create a conducive environment where successful capital 
raising could be encouraged and achieved.
The NSE targeted more listings on the Main Market 
Segment, Alternative Market Segment and the Growth 
Enterprise Market which was launched in 2013 through 
growing a pipeline of potential issuers and personally 
engaging them with capital market solutions for their 
funding needs. The market segments saw increased 
activity during the floating of additional shares by Kenya 
Commercial Bank during the acquisition of National 
Bank of Kenya and during the merger of NIC Bank and 
Commercial Bank of Africa to form the NCBA Group Plc. 
Bank stocks had seen increased activity after the removal 
of the interest rate caps in October 2019 as banks were 
now able to better position themselves to capitalize on 
lending opportunities to institutions and individuals. 
In a bid to increase the number of listings, the Capital 
Markets Authority introduced amendments to the GEMS 
framework which traditionally required companies to 
float at least 15% of their shareholding to 5%. This move 
is expected to increase the number of listings in the 
MATERIAL ISSUES (CONTINUED)
market as company managements will be able to retain 
control and influence over their organisations and at the 
same time meet funding needs through capital market 
solutions. Additionally, the finance Act 2019 introduced 
further tax incentive in the form of tax amnesty for 
companies listing on the GEMS segment of the NSE.
The Fixed income segment which consists of government 
and corporate bonds has not witnessed similar activity 
.However industry players have been collaborating 
on efforts to make the fixed income segment more 
attractive. The Green Bonds Framework was formally 
launched in February 2019 through industry consultative 
processes between NSE, CMA, KASIB and the Kenya 
Green Bond Programme partners and this would pave 
way for green bond issuances at corporate and National 
levels. The NSE held a number of trainings for potential 
issuers, verifiers and industry players in a bid to create 
increased awareness about the issuance process. Due to 
the attractiveness of these new bonds and the potential 
environmental impact, the NSE together with other 
Kenya Green Bond Programme partners successfully 
lobbied for the exemption of Interest tax for all income 
accruing from all listed bonds, notes or other similar 
securities used to raise funds for infrastructure, projects 
and assets defined under Green Bonds Standards and 
Guidelines, and other social services, provided that such 
bonds, notes or securities shall have a maturity of at 
least three years.
The Stanlib- Fahari I-REIT that had been listed at the 
NSE in November 2015 had reported a consistent 
performance in the forthcoming years. The Real Estate 
Investment Trusts (REITs) have been developing traction 
in the market with property developers and investors 
and present the potential of transforming real estate 
sector funding opportunities. This product is also 
very instrumental in achieving the Government’s Big 4 
Agenda for Housing. The NSE is also a member of the 
REITs Association of Kenya (RAK) and collectively they 
had successfully lobbied for the exemption of REITs from 
Income Tax to additionally cover the investee companies 
or subsidiaries of REITs. The Exchange is committed 
to improving the performance of this product and 
increasing awareness through the REITs conference to 
be held in September 2020.
The New Gold ETF listed in March 2017 has been 
reporting a steady performance to date. However, 
through increased awareness forums and further 
deliberations with potential issuers, the NSE seeks to see 
more activity on this equity segment. The ETF share price 
had risen 26% to KES 1470 in 2019 from KES 1165 in 
2018 and a turnover that had more than doubled. These 
statistics signal that ETFs remain an attractive investment 
tool for investors with a low risk appetite.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
51
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
51
The Ibuka Program that was launched on December 
17th, 2018 had gained noteworthy traction during 
the year 2019. Ibuka is a non-trading platform that 
hosts aspirational companies that are committed 
to their next stage of growth. It is structured in a two 
phased approach- the Incubator and Accelerator board 
respectively which are focused on supporting companies 
through a restructuring process that will enable them to 
subsequently capital raise. The Program aims to target 
SMEs and large entities that would require some form of 
capital raising to grow their potential thereby pursuing 
the traditional NSE capital market listings amongst 
other products. As at the end of 2019, the Program 
hosts 22 companies and has a number of consultants 
and advisors who are involved in the different stages. 
Hostees have been able to identify primary objectives 
with 100 implementation meetings held so far to 
actualize those objectives. Eight term sheets for capital 
raising have been signed with the hostees and capacity 
building trainings held to build the technical capacity of 
the hostees. This Program continues to grow and unlock 
value for the Exchange through.
MATERIAL ISSUES (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
52
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
52
Derivatives
Mr. Terrence Adembesa
Chief Officer, Derivatives Market
The Derivatives Market was launched 
on 4th July 2019. This was upon the 
receipt of the letters of ‘no objection’ by 
the Clearing Members from the Central 
Bank of Kenya following successful 
completion of the regulatory pilot testing 
phase as well as three key exceptional 
tests carried out in March 2019.
The launch of the Derivatives Market was a key milestone 
for the Exchange in its quest to become the investment 
partner of choice in Africa as well as anchoring its first 
pillar of revenue growth and diversification as captured 
in the 2015-2019 corporate strategy.
The pioneer products for the Derivatives Market were 
equity futures contracts structured off the NSE 25 share 
index and six counters that met the single stock futures 
eligibility criteria, namely, Safaricom, KCB Bank, Equity 
Bank, East African Breweries Ltd (EABL), British American 
Tobacco (BAT) and Barclays Bank of Kenya (now Absa 
Kenya).
The market kicked off with 9 players on board i.e. 7 
Trading Members and 2 Clearing Members. The Trading 
Members in the Derivatives Market are:
•	
AIB Capital Ltd;
•	
Standard Investment Bank;
•	
Sterling Capital;
•	
Faida Investment Bank;
•	
Kingdom Securities Ltd;
•	
NCBA Investment Bank; and
•	
Genghis Capital
On the other hand, the Clearing Members in the market 
are Stanbic Bank Kenya and the Co-operative Bank of 
Kenya.
In terms of trading, the Derivatives Market saw five 
hundred and seventy two (572) contracts change 
hands in 2019. The values of the contracts traded was 
KShs. 20, 734,794 reflecting average daily value trade of 
KShs. 215,987. The Safaricom September and December 
expiries were the most traded contracts to the tune of 
401 contracts while the NSE 25 share index and BAT saw 
trades of 7 contracts being traded in each.
While the Exchange was satisfied with the launch and 
commencement of trading and settlement operations in 
the Derivatives Market, the focus areas in the year 2020 
will be on business development, sales and ultimately 
product uptake in the market.
MATERIAL ISSUES (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
53
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 31 December 2019
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
53

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
54
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
STATEMENT OF 
DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES
INDEPENDENT 
GOVERNANCE AUDITOR 
REPORT
STATEMENT OF PROFIT 
AND LOSS AND OTHER  
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
	
COMPANY STATEMENT OF 
FINANCIAL POSITION
COMPANY STATEMENT OF 
CHANGES IN EQUITY
 FORM
55 - 56
75
68 - 70
79 - 80
82
84
135-142
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT
INDEPENDENT 
AUDITOR’S REPORT
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT
CONSOLIDATED 
STATEMENT OF 
FINANCIAL POSITION 
CONSOLIDATED 
STATEMENT OF CHANGES 
IN EQUITY
STATEMENT OF 
CASH FLOWS
NOTE PAD
57 - 67
76 - 78
71 - 74
81
83
85
-
TABLE OF CONTENTS
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS 
86 -131
NOTICE OF THE 
ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING
132-134

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
55
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is the sole securities exchange licensed 
by the Capital Markets Authority to promote, develop, 
support and carry on the business of a securities 
exchange and to discharge all the functions of a securities 
exchange in Kenya.
NSE Clear Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
NSE. The principal objectives of NSE Clear Limited are to 
carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to 
provide clearing and settlement services for transactions 
in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a 
securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in 
derivative securities transactions and to carry out all 
activities that pertain to a clearing house. The license to 
operate a derivatives exchange was issued by the Capital 
Markets Authority to the NSE on 19 October 2015. The 
derivatives market was launched in July 2019.
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) 
and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) are 
trusts whose main purpose is to strengthen the financial 
integrity of the derivatives market, ensure settlement of 
transactions in derivatives securities in case of default 
by a clearing member and satisfy specified claims by 
the investing public arising out of non-settlement of 
obligations owed to them by trading members or losses 
incurred by reason of the default of the trading members. 
The Board of Directors of the NSE Clear Limited appoints 
Trustees of the SGF and IPF who manage and administer 
these funds. 
In 2019, the Company acquired 61% of AKS Nominees 
Ltd (AKS).  AKS holds an 18% shareholding in the ordinary 
shares of the Central Depository Settlement Corporation 
(CDSC) in 2019. The principal activity of the subsidiary is 
holding equity shares in CDSC in trust for its members 
who are authorised to operate as stockbrokers and 
investment banks in the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
(NSE).
BUSINESS REVIEW
In 2019, which was the final year in the 2015 – 2019 
period, the Group achieved key milestones in line with 
its mission and corporate strategy. NSE’s incubation 
and acceleration program dubbed Ibuka closed the 
year with a total of 22 hostees, eager to transform their 
organizations. Another breakthrough was the official 
launch of NSE’s Derivatives Market (NEXT) that facilitates 
trading of future contracts in the Kenyan market, which 
will modernize our market. The NSE also upgraded the 
trading infrastructure to a system that has come along 
with significant changes to the structure of the current 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors present their annual report together with the audited financial statements of 
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE/the “Company”/the “Exchange”) and its subsidiaries and 
structured entities (together, the “Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2019, which show the 
state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
trading process providing more availability and allowing 
for trading of new and innovative instruments which will 
revolutionize the capital markets. Finally, and as part of 
the strategy of diversifying products in the Kenyan capital 
markets, the framework to issue listed and unlisted green 
bonds were launched, paving the way for the listing and 
trading of green bonds in Kenya. 
The Group’s profit after tax reduced by 58% from Kshs 
191 Million in 2018 to Kshs 80 Million in 2019 due to a 
decline in equity turnover and increased administrative 
costs. Operating income decreased by 9% from Kshs. 626 
Million in 2018 to Kshs. 567 Million in 2019 mainly driven 
by a 12% drop in equity turnover which declined from 
Kshs. 351 Billion for the year ended 31 December 2018 to 
Kshs. 307 Billion for the year ended 31 December 2019. 
This in turn led to a reduction in equity trading levies 
by 12% from Kshs. 421.6 Million for the year ended 31 
December 2018 to Kshs. 369.1 Million for same period in 
2019. The decline in the equity turnover was as a result 
of low domestic demand which saw an increase in asset 
allocation towards the fixed income assets. Interest 
income decreased by 23% from Kshs. 116 Million in 2018 
to Kshs. 89 Million in 2019 on utilisation of deposits to 
fund strategic investments.
Administrative expenses increased by 12% from Kshs. 
560 Million in 2018 to Kshs. 625 Million in 2019 mainly 
arising from a one-off staff restructuring cost of Kshs. 52 
Million in 2019. This is not expected to recur in 2020.
The ATS system upgrade was also completed in the year 
and the derivatives market launched in the year. Both 
ATS and derivatives systems were capitalized in 2019 
resulting in an increase in amortization and depreciation 
expenses by Kshs. 11.7 Million. 
Total assets increased nominally by 1% from Kshs. 2,218 
Million in 2018 to Kshs. 2,242 Million in 2019. Shareholder 
funds declined by 3% from Kshs 2,096 Million in 2018 
to Kshs 2,030 Million in 2019 impacted by the decline in 
performance for the year and by a Kshs 18.4 Million fair 
value loss on a quoted equity instrument purchased in 
2019.
Return on equity decreased to 3.9% (2018 – 9.1%) and 
return on assets decreased to 3.5% (2018 – 8.6%). Cost 
income increased from 71.6% in 2018 to 87.4% in 2019 
due mainly to the decline in equity performance and the 
staff restricting costs and asset amortization.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
56
DIVIDEND
The Group profit for the year of Sh 80,153,000 (2018: Sh 190,678,000) has been added to retained earnings. The 
directors recommend the approval of a first and final dividend of Sh 0.08 per share amounting to Sh 20,760,000 (2018: 
Sh 0.49 per share comprising of an ordinary dividend of Sh 0.29 per share and a special dividend of Sh 0.20 per share 
amounting to Sh 127,155,000).
DIRECTORS
Ms. Sharon Maviala retired as a director on 27 May 2019. Ms. Isis Nyongo was appointed as a director on 30 May 2019. 
Mr. John Maonga retired as the company secretary on 30 May 2019. Mr. Kuria Waithaka was appointed as the company 
secretary on 1 July 2019.        
The current members of the Board of Directors are as shown on page 5 and pages 20 - 23.
DISCLOSURES TO AUDITOR
The directors confirm that with respect to each director at the time of approval of this report:  
(a)	 there was, as far as each director is aware, no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; 
and
(b)	 each director had taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director so as to be aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP continues in office in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and Section 
721 of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditor. This responsibility includes the 
approval of the audit engagement contract and the associated fees on behalf of the shareholders.
By order of the Board
Mr. Kuria Waithaka
Secretary
27 March 2020 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
57
OVERVIEW
Corporate governance is at the heart of the structures and 
processes guiding the leadership of the Group. The Group 
has instituted systems to ensure that high standards of 
corporate governance are maintained at all levels of the 
organization and is in compliance with the requirements 
of all applicable laws and regulations including but not 
limited to the Capital Markets Act and regulations, rules 
and guidelines thereunder on Corporate Governance 
and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) regulations, 
rules, policies and procedures.
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD
The Board is collectively responsible to the Group’s 
shareholders for the long-term success of the Group 
and its strategic direction, its values and governance. It 
provides the leadership, integrity, enterprise and good 
judgment necessary to meet its business objectives 
within the framework of its internal controls while also 
discharging the Group’s obligations to its shareholders. 
THE KEY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE 
BOARD INCLUDE: 
a)	 To define and chart out the Group’s vision and 
mission. The Board has ultimate responsibility for 
the attainment of the Group’s vision;
b)	 To set the strategy, approve business plans and 
annual budgets and of any subsequent material 
changes in strategic direction;
c)	 To monitor Management’s implementation of the 
strategic plans and financial objectives as defined by 
the Board;
d)	 To define levels of materiality, reserving specific 
powers to itself and delegating other matters with 
the necessary written authority to Management;
e)	 To ensure that the Group is managed with a view to 
ensuring that the Group is ethical in all its dealings 
and has put in place sustainable business practices;
f)	
To ensure that procedures and processes are in 
place to protect the Group’s assets and reputation;
g)	 To ensure compliance by the Group with all relevant 
laws and regulations, audit and accounting principles, 
and such other principles as may be established by 
the Board from time to time;
h)	 To approve Terms of Reference of Board Committees 
and make appointments and changes in the 
composition of such Committees as are established 
from time to time;
i)	
To identify key risks for the Group and establish 
mechanisms for managing or mitigating them;
j)	
To set policies on internal controls and obtain regular 
assurance that the system is functioning effectively 
and is effective in managing risks;
k)	 To appoint the Chief Executive and senior 
management staff; 
l)	
To procure suitable external auditors for shareholder: 
and
m)	 To exercise such other powers as are necessary to 
enforce the requirements of the Capital Markets Act 
and regulations and guidelines thereunder, the NSE’s 
Articles of Association and the internal regulations 
and rules governing the Group.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The Chairman and the Chief Executive are responsible 
for the sustainable operations of the Group. Their 
roles are separate, with each having distinct and clearly 
defined roles and responsibilities. The Chairman directs 
the Board’s business and acts as it’s facilitator and guide 
ensuring that the Board is effective in its tasks of setting 
and implementing the Group’s direction and strategy. 
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, 
for ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and 
for facilitating the productive contribution of all Directors. 
The Chairman sets the agenda for the Board meetings 
in consultation with the Chief Executive. The Chairman 
is accountable to the Board for leading the direction of 
the Group’s corporate and financial strategy and for the 
overall supervision of the policies, rules and regulations 
governing the Group.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the 
business of the Group. The Chief Executive enforces the 
provisions of the Capital Markets Act (the “Act”) and the 
rules of the Group and immediately reports any violations 
to the Board and the Capital Markets Authority (“CMA/
Authority”) and ensures compliance with the requirements 
of the Act, and rules in operations, transactions and all 
affairs of the Group including listings and continuous 
reporting obligations of listed companies.
The Chief Executive is also responsible for the supervision 
of the trading activities of the Group and takes all 
necessary steps to maintain orderly and efficient trading 
and functioning of facilities, in accordance with the Group’s 
rules and as prescribed by the Act.
The Chief Executive reports periodically to the Board on all 
matters concerning the operation and affairs of the Group, 
attends all meetings of the Committees and provides 
technical input where necessary and promotes the 
objectives and functions of the Group. The Chief Executive 
also liaises with the Authority and its representatives in 
respect of administrative, regulatory and technical matters 
of the Group. The Chief Executive is also responsible for 
the stewardship of the Group’s assets and, jointly with the 
Chairman, for representation of the Group externally.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
58
BOARD COMPOSITION
As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board of the Nairobi Securities Exchange is constituted as follows:
a)	 Five (5) Independent and Non-Executive Directors; 
b)	 One (1) Non-Executive Director; 
c)	 Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Trading Participants;
d)	 Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Listed Companies; and
e)	 One (1) Executive Director.
Below is the current composition of the Board:
Mr. Samuel Kimani     
Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Bob Karina
Vice Chairman/Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director
Ms. Nasim Devji
Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Michael Turner
Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Paul Mwai
Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Hosea K. Kili
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ms. Risper Alaro
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Kiprono Kittony
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ms. Isis Nyongo
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Paul Vollant
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo
Chief Executive
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board established seven (7) Board Committees with 
delegated authority to assist the Board effectively carry 
out its obligations. These Board Committees are:
a)
Finance and Strategy Committee
b)
Trading, Technology and Innovation 
Committee
c)
Listing and Admissions Committee
d)
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee
e)
Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) Committee
f)
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee
g)
Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital 
Committee
Other than the Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 
and Trading, Technology and Innovation Committee, 
both which have external resource persons, all other 
Committees are now composed of Board members only.
There is also the Derivatives Risk Management 
Committee, which though a sub-committee of the 
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee, has within its 
membership, one member of the Board, a member of 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, for purposes 
of linkage and interface of risk matters between the Audit, 
Risk and Compliance Committee and the Derivatives Risk 
Management Committee.
At each ordinary Board meeting, the chairpersons of the 
Board Committees are required to report to the Board 
on the highlights of the deliberations of the Committees 
and to escalate to the Board all matters requiring the 
Board’s consideration and approval. 
The Board reviews the Committee composition every 
year to ensure that the Committees have suitable, 
appropriate and relevant skills required to effectively 
discharge the mandate of the Committees and the 
Board as a whole. The review also aids in incorporating 
into committees any members who may have retired 
from the Board and also those who may join the Board 
in the course of the year. The Committee membership 
review took place in June 2019.
The Committee Terms of Reference are also reviewed 
on an annual basis to ensure that they are up to date to 
factor in any developments in the organizations strategic 
direction, operations, industry practice and global best 
practices. The annual review in 2019, took place in 
November 2019.
Below is a summary of the mandates, functions, 
membership and activities of the various committees:

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
59
e)	 Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) Committee
The mandate of the Self-Regulatory Organization 
Committee is to enforce the NSE Market Participants 
Business Conduct and Enforcement Rules, 2014, 
the Listing Rules, Continuous Listing Obligations 
Regulations, the Derivatives Rules, the NSE Trading 
Rules and any other Regulations or Rules of the 
NSE as are in force, as may be necessary for the 
maintenance of a fair and orderly market and to 
ensure compliance with any other capital market 
legislation and the enforcement powers of which 
have been delegated to the SRO function of the NSE.
f)	
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 
The mandate of the Audit, Risk and Compliance 
Committee is to monitor, review and make 
recommendations to the Board on the adequacy 
of NSE’s internal control, internal and external 
audit programs, risk management and compliance 
monitoring systems and to monitor the organization’s 
Corporate 
Governance 
practices 
including 
compliance with relevant laws, regulations and rules 
in respect of the Group’s business.
g)	 Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital 
Committee
The Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital 
Committee advises and assists the Board in effective 
discharge of its responsibilities in relation to the 
composition of the Board and its remuneration, 
and to establish a plan of continuity for the Chief 
Executive as appropriate. The Committee also 
advises, implements and assists the Board in 
effective discharge of its responsibilities in relation 
to Human Capital Management.
.
BOARD COMMITTEES (CONTINUED)
a)	 Finance and Strategy Committee
The mandate of the Finance and Strategy Committee 
is to oversee the implementation of the NSE Strategy 
and strategic business development initiatives of the 
NSE, including training and to deal with all matters 
relating to the prudent financial management of the 
Group, which includes NSE PLC subsidiaries, including 
reviewing and advising on the financial statements 
and management accounts. The Committee also 
evaluates and advises on potential investment 
opportunities and also oversees procurement at the 
NSE to ensure compliance with the Procurement 
manuals and procedures.
b)	 Trading, Technology and Innovation Committee
The Trading, Technology and Innovation Committee’s 
mandate is to assist the Board in relation to 
trading 
and 
markets 
operations, 
information 
technology infrastructure, data service provision 
and dissemination of market information to capital 
markets stakeholders and the general public. The 
Committee also monitors the state of technology 
capabilities within NSE and identifies and manages 
the associated risks and opportunities that could 
have significant impact in the organization’s 
operations.
c)	 Listing and Admissions Committee 
The Listing and Admissions Committee is mandated 
to assist the Board in the effective discharge of its 
responsibilities in relation to listing of new equity 
securities in any of the market segments and 
admission of Market Participants (including Trading 
Participants, market makers, liquidity providers, 
custodians for the Derivatives Market and other 
capital market support service providers) on the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange and the NSE Derivatives 
Market. The Committee also provides oversight in 
respect of admission of companies into the Ibuka 
Program and the consultants and advisors that guide 
entities hosted on the Ibuka Program.
d)	 Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 
The Derivatives Market Oversight Committee advises 
the Board on the oversight of, and strategic issues 
relating to the NSE’s Derivatives Market and the 
Derivatives Clearing House including addressing 
conflict of interest matters regarding futures brokers, 
issues arising in the design of derivatives contracts 
and undertaking trading and surveillance functions.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
60
BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2019
Director
Classification
Designation
 
Board
Finance & 
Strategy 
Committee
Trading, 
Technology 
& Innovation 
Committee
Audit, Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee
Listings & 
Admissions 
Committee
Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
(SRO) 
Committee
Remuneration, 
Nominating & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Derivatives 
Market 
Oversight 
Committee
S Kimani
Non-executive
Chairman -
Board
Membership
√
√**
Attendance
10/10
1/1
B Karina
Non-executive
Vice Chairman 
– Board,
Chairman 
- Trading, 
Technology 
& Innovation 
Committee
Membership
√
√
√
 
√
√
 
Attendance
10/10
7/7
5/5
 
3/3
 
6/6 
 
S Maviala*
Non-executive
 
Membership
√
 
 
√
√
 
√
Attendance
4/5
 
 
4/4
1/1
2/2
 
2/2
H Kili
Non-executive
Chairman -
Self-Regulatory 
Organization 
(SRO) 
Committee
Membership
√
√**
√***
√
√**
√**
 
Attendance
10/10
3/3
1/2
4/6
1/1
4/4
3/4
 
M Turner
Non-executive
Chairman 
-  Finance 
& Strategy  
Committee
Membership
√
√
 
√
√***
 
√
Attendance
9/10
7/7
 
1/3
1/2
 
1/4
* Ms. Sharon Maviala retired as a Director on 27th May 2019
** Stepped down from the Committee on 4th June 2019	
*** Appointed to the Committee on 4th June 2019
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
61
BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2019
Director
Classification
Designation
 
Board
Finance & 
Strategy 
Committee
Trading, 
Technology 
& 
Innovation 
Committee
Audit, Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee
Listings & 
Admissions 
Committee
Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
(SRO) 
Committee
Remuneration, 
Nominating & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Derivatives 
Market 
Oversight 
Committee
N Devji
Non-executive
Membership
√
 
 
√
√***
 
√
√****
Attendance
7/10
 
4/6
0/1
 
5/6 
1/2
P Vollant
Non-executive
 
Membership
√
 √
 
√***
√
Attendance
9/10
5/7
 
 
1/1
 
4/6
R Alaro
Non-executive
Chairperson 
-  Audit, Risk 
& Compliance 
Committee
Membership
√
 
 
√
√
√
√
 
Attendance
9/10
6/6
2/3
4/4
6/6
P Mwai
Non-executive 
Membership
√
√
√
 
√
 
√***
Attendance
10/10
7/7
5/5
3/3
 
2/2
K Kittony
Non-executive 
Chairperson- 
Remuneration, 
Nominating & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Membership
√
√
√
 
√
√**
√***
Attendance
10/10
3/7
4/5
3/3
 2/2
2/2
I 
Madison*
Non-executive
 Chairperson
 -  Listing & 
Admissions 
Committee
Membership
√
√****
√**
 
 
Attendance
5/5
4/4
 2/2
2/2
 
 
G Odundo
 
Chief Executive
Membership
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attendance
10/10
7/7
5/5
6/6
3/3
4/4
6/6 
4/4
* Ms. Isis Nyon’go was appointed as a Director on 30th May 2019.
** Appointed as Chairperson of the Committee on 4th June 2019	
*** Stepped down from the Committee on 4th June 2019	
**** Appointed to the Committee on 4th June 2019
The Chief Executive does not form the quorum for Board Committee meetings and attends by invitation
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
62
BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 
THE YEAR 2019
BOARD COMMITTEES WITH EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS
1.	
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee
Name
Nature of Participation
Attendance
S. Mwangi
Chairperson 
1/4
E. Kigen
Member
4/4
H. Muga*
Member
1/4
A. Mulisa
Member
4/4
J. Swai
Member
4/4
* Stepped down from the Committee on 26th February 2019.
2.	
Trading, Technology and Innovation Committee
Name
Nature of participation
Attendance
I. Onyango
Member
3/5
J. Waiguru
Member
4/5
F. Moturi
Member
3/5
F. Mwangi
Member
2/5
E. Kihanda
Member
3/5
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FACT SHEET
Number of Board Members
11
Number of Independent Non-Executive Directors
5
Number of Non-Executive Directors
1
Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Trading Participants
2
Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Listed Companies
2
Number of Executive Directors
1
Number of women on the Board
3
Separate Chairman and CEO
Yes
Terms of Reference for Board Committees
Yes
Independent Audit Committee
Yes
Number of financial experts on Audit Committee
2
Number of Board Meetings held in 2019
10
Number of Annual General Meetings in 2019
1
Re-election of Directors in accordance with Articles of Association
Yes
Board Induction Programs conducted
Yes
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
63
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
a)	 Share capital
The authorized and issued share capital of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC consists of only ordinary shares as 
disclosed in note 23 to the financial statements.
b)	 Top 20 Shareholders at 31 December 2019
No          Shareholder
  Number of 
shares
%
1            Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE002374
41,764,400
16.0940%
2            Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE22446
24,158,413
9.3100%
3            Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE003414
13,432,793
5.1760%
4            Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030823
12,523,399
4.8260%
5            Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030824
9,236,167
3.5590%
6            The Investor Compensation Fund Board
8,750,000
3.3720%
7            The Permanent Secretary to The Treasury
8,750,000
3.3720%
8            Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE002382
7,410,067
2.8560%
9            Sterling Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.6975%
10          Nyaga Stock Brokers Ltd
7,000,000
2.6975%
11          Discount Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.6975%
12          ABC Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.6975%
13          Kingdom Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.6975%
14          Renaissance Capital (Kenya) Limited
7,000,000
2.6975%
15          Old Mutual Securities Limited 
5,415,700
2.0870%
16          Standard Chartered Nominees Non-resident A/C 9661
4,536,800
1.7480%
17          Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Limited
4,300,000
1.6570%
18          Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE002373
4,000,000
1.5410%
19          Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1031142
3,897,474
1.5020%
20          NIC Securities Ltd
3,500,000
1.3490%
_____________________
_____________________
Top 20 shareholders
193,675,213
74.6340%
Others
65,825,578
25.3660%
_____________________
_____________________
    Total issued shares
259,500,791
100.000%
===============
===============
c)	 Distribution of Shareholders at 31 December 2019
Number of 
Shareholders
  Number of 
shares
%
Less than 500
2,529
443,689
0.171%
501 – 5,000
9,455
12,578,550
4.847%
5,001 – 10,000
620
4,466,587
1.721%
10,001 – 100,000
582
15,052,080
5.800%
100,001 – 1,000,000
56
14,298,002
5.510%
Above 1,000,000
30
212,661,883
81.950%
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
Total 
13,272
259,500,791
100.000%
===============
===============
===============
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
64
CAPITAL STRUCTURE (CONTINUED)
d)	 Shareholder Analysis by Domicile at 31 December 2019
 
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Individual investors
Local
12,436
32,017,174
12.338%
East African
85
242,737
0.094%
Foreign
103
3,818,131
1.471%
_______________
__________________
_______________
12,624
36,078,042
13.903%
_______________
__________________
_______________
Institutional investors
Local
623
91,343,147
35.200%
East African
6
60,193
0.023%
Foreign
19
132,019,409
50.874%
________________
___________________
_______________
648
223,422,749
86.097%
________________
___________________
_______________
Total
13,272
259,500,791
100.000%
===========
==============
===========
e)	 Directors Holding Shares at 31 December 2019
 
Number of 
shares
%
Mr. Samuel Kimani
8,000
0.00003%
Mr. Hosea Kili
4,400
0.00002%
Ms. Nasim Devji
45,600
0.00020%
Mr. Bob Karina
85,300
0.00033%
Mr. Geoffrey Odundo
49,000
0.00019%
_____________________
_______________
Total
192,300
0.00077%
===============
===========
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
65
Corporate Governance Policy 
Statements
Code of Corporate Governance Principles
The Board and Management of the NSE have put in place 
deliberate effort towards full compliance with the Capital 
Markets Code of Corporate Governance Practice for 
Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 (the “Code”).
In compliance with the Code, NSE sought to conduct a 
Governance Audit and the Legal & Compliance Audit in 
2018. This was in an attempt to lay the framework for the 
establishment of an on-going governance compliance 
program in order to ensure the Board’s goals, structure 
and operations are consistent with the Corporate 
Governance principles. 
Strategic Business Solutions International Limited (SBSIL) 
was appointed to carry out the Governance and Legal & 
Compliance Audits. Although NSE was in its first time of 
going through a comprehensive Governance Audit and 
the Legal & Compliance Audit, the Company scored very 
well.
The noted areas of improvement were mainly around 
the Strategic planning and implementation process, 
which NSE adhered to in the formulation of the 2020-
2024 Strategic Plan with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC) 
as a consultant.
Moreover, the NSE has a good record of corporate 
governance, having ranked top alongside Kenya 
Commercial Bank and Safaricom in a 2018 report released 
by Cytonn. The ranking was based on 24 metrics that 
consider different aspects of governance, including board 
composition, ethnic and gender diversity, board meeting 
attendance, board independence, remuneration, and 
overall transparency.
Therefore, NSE was exempted from conducting a 
governance audit in 2019 in line with the recently 
announced amendments to The Code of Corporate 
Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the 
Public 2015 through circular no.1 of 2020 released by 
the Capital Markets Authority on January 2, 2020:
After further consultations & engagements with the 
stakeholders, taking into account the issues raised and 
wider stakeholders’ interests, the Authority will be amending 
the Code in order to reschedule the governance audits to at 
least once in every 2 years with the option of the Authority 
increasing or decreasing the cycle based on a risk based 
approach. In all cases, in any period in which a governance 
audit has not been undertaken, the issuer will be required 
to detail the progress made in implementing prior audit 
recommendations.
The Authority will also continue to conduct further 
consultations on the operation of a risk-based approach 
which may have the potential of allowing an issuer that: 
For example, if a company is consistently assessed and 
rated weighted overall score as a leader” in 3 consecutive 
years to have a governance audit cycle of 3-5 years.
Board Charter
The Board of Directors of the NSE regard corporate 
governance as key to the achievement of NSE’s mission 
and vision, and is committed to applying the core 
governance principles.
The NSE Board Charter outlines the;
1.	 Roles, functions, responsibilities and powers of the 
Board, individual directors and the officials and 
executives of the NSE;
2.	 Powers delegated to various Board Committees of 
the NSE; and
3.	 Policies and practices of the Board in respect of 
matters such as corporate governance, trading 
by directors, declarations and conflicts of interest, 
Board meeting documentation and procedures and 
the nomination of directors, training and evaluation 
of directors and members of Board committees.
Whilst the Board Charter includes references to minimum 
acceptable standards of conduct, the Board embraces 
global best practices in this regard.
 
Board Diversity
The NSE Board has put in place a policy to ensure 
the achievement of diversity in its composition. The 
Remuneration and Nominating Committee assess 
the required skills mix and expertise for the executive 
directors as well as Independent and Non-Executive 
Directors. The Board considers factors such as: size, 
qualifications, technical expertise, relevant industry 
knowledge, experience, nationality, age, gender and other 
demographics with a view to enhancing effectiveness.
NSE promotes diversity by championing Gender Equality, 
alongside other exchanges, investors, private sector and 
regulators.
The Board Profiles on pages 20-23  has more details on 
size, age, gender, qualifications among other factors.
Board Induction and Training
The NSE Board has established a formal induction 
program for the Board. All Board members receive 
induction on joining the Board and are updated on the 
various skills and knowledge at regular intervals.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
66
Corporate Governance Policy 
Statements (Continued)
Board Induction and Training (Continued)
Board members are provided with necessary orientation 
in the areas of the Company’s business (the Company’s 
operations, product offerings, regulatory framework and 
the business environment) in order to enhance their 
effectiveness. They are also introduced to their fiduciary 
duties and responsibilities.
The Board has also put in place training programs for the 
members.
Board Remuneration
The NSE Board has established formal and transparent 
remuneration policies to attract and retain both 
Executive and Non-Executive Board members. These 
policies clearly state remuneration elements such as 
Directors’ fees and attendance allowances that are 
competitive and in line with the industry practice. Non-
Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every 
meeting attended.
The Company does not grant any personal loans, 
guarantees, share options or long term incentives to its 
Non-Executive Directors. Neither are the Non-Executive 
Directors eligible for provident fund. The company 
has taken out insurance covers for the non- executive 
Directors covering Directors and Officers liability 
insurance cover and group personal accident covering 
death, permanent total disability and medical expenses.
The Chief Executive is the only Executive Director on the 
Board and the company has in place a remuneration 
policy which is aimed at ensuring compensation is 
competitive and aligned to the company’s strategic 
objectives.
Code of Ethics and Conduct
The Company has a Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy. 
All Board members and NSE employees are required 
to uphold the highest standards of integrity, ethical 
standards and excellence in line with NSE’s core values 
of Integrity, Excellence, Teamwork, Sustainability, and 
Accountability. The performance on ethics has been 
good and is monitored periodically with all staff having to 
sign the Annual Code of Conduct Attestations.
NSE recognizes that ethical business brings sustainable 
business. We are committed to playing a proactive role in 
a globally competitive and prosperous nation operating 
on ethical business standards as evidenced by our 
involvement in various ethical and sustainable initiatives 
such as the UN Global Compact, being signatory the 
Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya among others.
Whistle-blowing
The NSE Board has put in place a Whistle-blowing Policy 
that recognizes the difficulty its stakeholders may face 
in raising their concerns with regards to the Company 
operations. 
The Policy protects every employee and business partner 
who raises a concern in good faith. The Company will 
treat every concern raised by an employee in good faith 
seriously and in a confidential manner and does not 
retaliate or allow any retaliation or discrimination by its 
employees of any kind against any employee who raises 
a concern in good faith.
Stakeholders can raise their concerns with the relevant 
Company officials and/or through the available reporting 
channels. Staff and other stakeholders are regularly 
sensitized on the need to report any suspected unethical 
business practices and procedure to make such reports. 
The summary of this policy is available in our website.
Insider Dealing
The NSE has an insider trading policy guided by Sections 
32A – 33 of Part VI of the Capital Markets Act (Cap 485A) 
which prohibits insider trading. The policy provides 
procedures and guidelines with respect to transactions in 
the NSE securities, the protection of Insider Information 
and the standard of conduct expected of the NSE 
directors, officers and employees.  Internal stakeholders 
are made aware that they ought not to trade in the 
Company’s shares while in possession of any insider 
information that is not available to the public or during 
a closed period. NSE’s closed period covers between 1st 
January until publication of full year results and 1st July 
until publication of half year results.
Conflict of Interest
The Board has put in place a policy to manage conflict 
of interest. As a procedure, Directors declare any real or 
perceived conflict of interest with the Company and such 
disclosures are reflected in the Minutes of the Board and 
Committee’s meeting. The Company Secretary maintains 
and updates the register of declared conflict of interest. 
The Board is appraised on the statutory duty to avoid 
situations in which they have or may have interests that 
conflict with those of the Company.
All business transactions with Board members or their 
related parties are carried out at arms’ length. In practice, 
there is an acknowledgment that if it comes to the 
attention of a Board member that a matter concerning 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
67
Corporate Governance Policy 
Statements (Continued)
Conflict of Interes (Continued)
the Company may result in a conflict of interest, the 
Board member is obligated to declare and exclude 
himself/herself from any deliberations, voting or decision 
over the matter in conflict.
Enterprise Risk Management
The objective of the NSE’s Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) framework is to protect shareholders’ value in 
order to enhance NSE’s competitive advantage, improve 
business performance and optimize risk management 
and compliance value. The framework is aligned to 
ISO 31000:2018 Risk Management Guidelines, COSO 
Enterprise Risk Management 2017 as well the applicable 
laws, regulations and guidelines.
(More notes on page 31-33)
Information and Communication 
Technology
The NSE leverages heavily on technology to deliver its 
core mandate of delivering a world class trading platform.
The NSE Board has prioritized cyber security and related 
Information Technology risks. To ensure confidentiality, 
integrity and availability of the various platforms, 
the Exchange has adopted the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology Cyber Security Framework 
as the back bone of its Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT) and Cyber Security policies. Being a full 
member of the World Federation of Exchange (WFE), the 
NSE is constantly benchmarking with international best 
practices as well and has tailored the policy framework 
relevant to securities trading.
The Exchange has in place relevant ICT policies, 
procedures as well as enforcing the practices that are 
congruent to these policies.
The Management and staff are actively driving a cyber 
security conscious culture within the organization. There 
is commensurate investment in setting up controls and 
monitoring tools to assure the various stakeholders 
of security in access and use of the ICT assets of the 
organization.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Procurement
We have in place a robust Procurement Policy that 
ensures 
appropriate 
risk 
assurance, 
integrity 
in 
all procurement activities, consistency across the 
organization’s purchasing practices and openness and 
transparency of decision making when dealing with 
suppliers/service providers.
The policy is based on notable principles: namely, value 
for money, open and fair competition, risk management, 
accountability 
and 
building 
mutually 
beneficial 
relationships with our suppliers. A Management Tender 
Committee oversees the award of tenders and reports 
to the Finance and Strategy Committee of the Board 
based on the limits as set out in the Procurement Policy 
and Procedures.	

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
68
Governance Audit
Introduction 
We performed the Governance Audit for Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC covering the year ended 31 December 2018, 
which comprised assessment of Governance Practices, Structures and Systems put in place by the Board of Directors. 
Board responsibility 
The Board is responsible for putting in place the Structures and Systems that support the practice of good governance 
in the organization. This responsibility includes planning, designing and maintaining governance structures through 
policy formulation necessary for efficient and effective management of the organization. The Board is also responsible 
for ensuring that there is proper constitution and composition of its members; ethical leadership and corporate 
citizenship; accountability; risk management and internal control; transparency and disclosure; members rights 
and obligations; members’ relationship; compliance with laws and regulations; and sustainability and performance 
management.
Governance Auditor’s responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the existence and effectiveness of Governance instruments, policies, 
structures, systems and practices in the organization within legal and regulatory framework and in accordance with 
best governance practices as envisaged under proper board constitution and composition; ethical leadership and 
corporate citizenship; accountability; risk management and internal control; transparency and disclosure; members 
rights and obligations; members’ relationship; compliance with laws and regulations; and sustainability and performance 
management based on our audits. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with ICPSK Governance Audit Standards and Guidelines which conform to 
global Governance Standards. These Standards require that we plan and perform the governance audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the organization’s policies, systems and processes. We 
believe that our governance audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Opinion 
In our opinion, the Board has put in place effective, appropriate and adequate governance structures in the organization 
which are in compliance with the legal and regulatory framework and in line with good governance practices for the 
interest of stakeholders. 
__________________________________________________ 
FCS. Jackson K. Maingi, ICPSK GA. No. 00008
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT 
GOVERNANCE AUDITOR  TO THE MEMBERS 
OF NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
69
Legal and Compliance Audit
In addition to the above Governance Audit and in compliance with the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for 
Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015, NSE sought to conduct the Legal & Compliance Audit. This was in an attempt 
to lay the framework for the establishment of an on-going governance compliance program in order to ensure the 
Board’s goals, structure and operations are consistent with the Corporate Governance principles. The purpose of the 
Legal and Compliance Audit was to assess the extent to which NSE complies with laws, regulations, standards and 
internal controls. 
SBSIL was appointed to carry out the Governance and Legal & Compliance Audits. In carrying out the Governance 
Audit, the Consultants developed a Legal Audit Tool and had it agreed to by the client while on the other hand, a 
Compliance Audit Tool prepared by the client was used. 
The Legal Audit Tool had thirteen parameters as shown below: 
a.	 General Organization Matters; 
b.	 Legal Proceedings and Advice; 
c.	
Managing the Advocate-Client relationship; 
d.	 Contracts; 
e.	 Intellectual Property; 
f.	
Employment Legal Issues; 
g.	 Volunteer Legal Issues; 
h.	 Communication, Website, Cloud and Internet use; 
i.	
Insurance; 
j.	
Record retention; 
k.	
Reporting Requirements; 
l.	
Accessibility and Disability Assistance; and 
m.	 Disaster preparation. 
From the Likert-Type Scale of rating used ranging from 1 for very poor to 5 for very good, then ratings of 4.21 and 4.77 
fall under rating 4 which represents “good.” This indicates that the legal and compliance practices at NSE are good. As 
a matter of fact on Compliance issues alone, NSE, with a mean score of 4.77, is tending to “very good.”
In conclusion, NSE has performed well in the first time a Legal and Governance Audit has been performed, attaining a 
combined mean score of 4.49 in its compliance practices. Whereas this is a good score, the weak areas especially on 
the Legal Audit side where scores of 3.00 and below were recorded should be worked on to ensure scores of 4.00 and 
above are attained next time an audit is carried out. 
__________________________________________________ 
FCS. Jackson K. Maingi, ICPSK GA. No. 00008
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT GOVERNANCE AUDITOR  TO 
THE MEMBERS OF NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC 
(CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
70
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT GOVERNANCE AUDITOR  TO 
THE MEMBERS OF NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC 
(CONTINUED)
Management Comments on the Governance Auditor Report
The NSE Management notes with appreciation the full compliance with the Code of Corporate Governance Practices 
for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 with the Governance Auditor’s recommendations having been implemented. 
We continue to ensure full compliance as well as continued effective, appropriate and adequate governance structures 
in NSE which are aligned with the legal and regulatory framework and in line with good governance practices for the 
interest of stakeholders.
In pursuance to Circular No.1 of 2020 from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) to Chairpersons and Chief Executives 
of Issuers of Securities to the Public dated 2nd January 2020, the NSE shall conduct the second Governance, Legal and 
Compliance Audits next financial year, 2021. 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
71
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
REPORT
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT
Statement of Group’s policy on directors’ 
remuneration 
a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
The Board establishes and approves formal and 
transparent remuneration policies to attract and retain 
both executive and non-executive Board members. 
These policies clearly state remuneration elements such 
as Directors’ fees and attendance allowances that are 
competitive and in line with the industry. Non-Executive 
Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every meeting 
attended. They are not eligible for provident fund 
membership. The Company does not grant any personal 
loans, guarantees, share options or long term incentives 
to its non-executive Directors. The company has taken 
out insurance covers for the non-executive Directors 
covering Directors and Officers liability insurance cover 
and group personal accident covering death, permanent 
total disability and medical expenses.
The Chief Executive is the only executive director on the 
Board and the company has in place a remuneration 
policy which is aimed at ensuring compensation is 
competitive and aligned to the company’s strategic 
objectives. The Executive Director’s remuneration and 
benefits consists of:-
 
·	
A monthly salary determined on appointment  
·	
An annual bonus based on the performance of 
the company, individual performance and general 
inflation considerations.
·	
Contributory staff provident scheme
·	
Non-cash benefits relating to a company-maintained 
vehicle and insurance cover.
At the Board of Directors meeting held in May 2019, 
changes were approved to the Directors remuneration 
as follows:
·	
To increase the annual retainer fees for the Chair, 
Vice Chairman and other Directors from a per annum 
gross of Sh 714,286, Sh 571,429 and Sh 428,571 
respectively to a per annum gross of Sh 1.2 million, 
Sh 960,000 and Sh 720,000 respectively.
·	
To fix the Board Committee sitting allowances from 
a gross of Sh 28,571 per sitting for each member to 
a gross of Sh 57,142 for the Committee Chair and Sh 
42,857 for Committee members.
b)	 NSE Clear Limited
A managing director or other executive officer shall 
receive such remuneration (whether by way of salary, 
commission or participation in profits, or partly in one way 
and partly in another) as the directors may determine.
There were no substantial changes to the Director’s 
remuneration policy during the year 2019. 
c)	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee 
Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF)
In accordance with the Trust Deed of the Funds, the 
Board of Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints the 
trustees of the Fund subject to approval by the CMA. The 
number of trustees is set at a minimum of Three (3).  Any 
person, whether or not domiciled, resident or carrying 
on business or in the case of a body corporate carrying 
on business in Kenya may be appointed and hold office 
as a trustee.
There were no substantial changes to the trustees’ 
remuneration policy during the year 2019.
Contract of service
a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
In accordance with Article 93 of the Articles  of Association 
of the Company, unless and until otherwise from time 
to time determined by an ordinary resolution of the 
Company, but always subject to the provisions of the 
Kenyan Companies Act (the Act) and the Capital Markets 
Act (CMA) regulations, the number of Directors (including 
the Chief Executive and excluding alternates) shall not 
be less than Seven (7) and not more than Eleven (11) in 
number and shall be elected in accordance with the Act, 
the Capital Markets Act and the Company’s Articles of 
Association.
Two Directors are elected by the members from among 
or to represent the trading participants and a further 
two Directors are elected by the members from among 
nominees of companies listed on the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange to represent the said listed companies. 
Any other directors are elected by the members in 
accordance with the Companies Act provided that at all 
times at least one third of the Directors must be non-
executive Directors.
If at any time the number of Directors falls below the 
minimum number fixed by or in accordance with 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
72
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT 
(CONTINUED)
Contract of service (Continued)
a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (Continued)
the Company’s Articles of Association, the remaining 
Directors may act for the purpose of convening a general 
meeting or for the purpose of bringing the number of 
Directors to such minimum, and for no other purpose.
The Non-Executive Directors are not under contract 
but are subject to retirement by rotation at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). CMA regulations provide for 
fixed terms of office for the company’s Chairman and 
Chief Executive, which shall include a maximum term 
of office of two consecutive years for the Chairman and 
four years renewable once for the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive’s contract within the period under 
review is for the second term for a Four (4) years period 
running from 1 March 2019. Under the terms of the 
contract, either party may, not less than six months to the 
expiry of this contract, notify the other of their intention 
not to extend the contract, otherwise the contract shall 
be automatically renewed for a further final period of four 
years. Either Party may also terminate the Agreement 
without assigning any reasons, at any time, by giving to 
the other not less than six months’ notice in writing, or 
six months’ salary in lieu of notice, at the end of which 
the Agreement shall determine.
b)	 NSE Clear
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association 
(the Articles), the directors have power at any time, 
and from time to time, to appoint any person to be a 
director, either to fill a casual vacancy, or as an addition 
to the existing directors, but so that the total number 
of directors shall not at any time exceed the number 
fixed in accordance with the Articles. Any director so 
appointed shall hold office until he is removed or his 
office is vacated, in each case in accordance with these 
Articles.
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more 
of their body to the office of managing director, or to 
any other executive office under the Company, for such 
period and on such terms as they think fit, and, leave to 
the terms of any agreement entered into in any particular 
case, may revoke such appointment. The appointment of 
such managing director or other executive officer shall 
be automatically determined if he ceases from any cause 
to be a director. 
Other than the Managing Director, the Directors are 
subject to retirement by rotation at every Annual General 
Meeting (AGM).
c)	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee 
Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF)
The Trustees are not under contract. The office of a 
trustee becomes vacant if: the trustee resigns with a 
one month’s notice; becomes mentally or physically 
incapacitated; or by removal by the Board of NSE Clear 
Limited by a resolution.  A trustee can also retire at any 
time by giving a three (3) months written notice to the 
Board. In the event of the number of trustees falling 
below three, the Board shall, subject to the approval of 
the CMA, appoint such additional trustees as shall be 
necessary to make their number upto three, save where 
there is appointed a sole corporate trustee.
Statement of  voting on the Directors’ 
remuneration report at the Previous Annual 
General Meeting
a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
During the Annual General Meeting held on 30th May 
2019, the shareholders approved the fees paid to the 
Directors fees for the year ended 31st December 2018 by 
show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9th July 
2020, approval will be sought from shareholders for the 
fees paid to the Directors for the financial year ended 31st 
December 2019.
b)	 NSE Clear Limited 
During the Annual General Meeting held on 14th May 
2019, the shareholders approved the fees paid to the 
Directors for the year ended 31st December 2018 by 
show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9th July 
2020, approval will be sought from shareholders for the 
fees paid to the Directors for the financial year ended 31st 
December 2019.
c)	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee 
Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF)
The Funds do not hold annual general meetings. The fees 
for the Trustees are approved by the NSE Clear Limited 
Board.
	
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
73
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT
The following table shows a single figure remuneration for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and Executive 
Director in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31st December 2019 together with the comparative figures 
for 2018. 
Year ended 31 December 2019
Name
Category
Fees
Sitting 
allowances
Gross pay + 
other 
allowances
Provident 
scheme 
contribution
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Samuel Kimani*
Non-Executive
1,200,000
1,300,000
-
-
2,500,000
Bob Karina*
Non-Executive
960,000
2,100,000
-
-
3,060,000
Hosea Kili*
Non-Executive
720,000
1,700,000
-
-
2,420,000
Sharon Maviala
Non-Executive
360,000
700,000
-
-
1,060,000
Isis Nyong’o
Non-Executive
360,000
807,143
-
-
1,167,143
Nasim Devji
Non-Executive
720,000
1,064,286
-
-
1,784,286
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
720,000
1,235,714
-
-
1,955,714
Paul Vollant*
Non-Executive
720,000
1,478,571
-
-
2,198,571
Paul Mwai
Non-Executive
720,000
1,514,286
-
-
2,234,286
Risper Alaro
Non-Executive
720,000
1,692,857
-
-
2,412,857
Kiprono Kittony
Non-Executive
720,000
1,414,286
-
-
2,134,286
Geoffrey Odundo
Executive
-
-
23,875,465
2,232,960
26,108,425
7,920,000
15,007,143
23,875,465
2,232,960
49,035,568
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2019 is amounts relating to fees earned for services 
rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below:
Sitting Allowances
NSE Clear
IPF
SGF
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Samuel Kimani
85,714
85,714
85,714
257,143
Bob Karina
114,286
114,286
114,286
342,857
Paul Vollant
114,286
114,286
114,286
342,857
Hosea Kili
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
371,429
371,429
371,429
1,114,286
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit).
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
74
Year ended 31 December 2018
Name
Category
Fees
Sitting 
allowances
Gross pay + 
other 
allowances
Provident 
scheme 
contribution
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Samuel Kimani*
Non-Executive
714,286
1,211,429
-
-
1,925,715
Bob Karina*
Non-Executive
571,429
1,371,429
-
-
1,942,858
Dr. Winnie Nyamute*
Non-Executive
214,286
714,286
-
-
928,572
Hosea Kili*
Non-Executive
428,571
1,178,571
-
-
1,607,142
Sharon Maviala
Non-Executive
428,571
885,714
-
-
1,314,285
Jimnah Mbaru
Non-Executive
214,286
185,714
-
-
400,000
Nasim Devji
Non-Executive
428,571
864,286
-
-
1,292,857
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
428,571
750,000
-
-
1,178,571
James Mworia
Non-Executive
214,286
321,429
-
-
535,715
Paul Vollant*
Non-Executive
428,571
907,143
-
-
1,335,714
Paul Mwai
Non-Executive
214,286
428,571
-
-
642,857
Risper Alaro
Non-Executive
214,286
514,286
-
-
728,572
Kiprono Kittony
Non-Executive
214,286
242,857
-
-
457,143
Geoffrey Odundo
Executive
-
-
21,730,273
1,988,648
23,718,921
4,714,286
9,575,714
21,730,273
1,988,648
38,008,921
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2018 is amounts relating to fees earned for services 
rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below:
Sitting Allowances
NSE Clear
NSE IPF
NSE SGF
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Samuel Kimani
114,286
114,286
114,286
342,858
Bob Karina
114,286
114,286
114,286
342,858
Dr. Winnie Nyamute
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
Paul Vollant
85,714
85,714
85,714
257,142
Hosea Kili
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
428,572
428,572
428,572
1,285,716
Mr Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit).
Mr. Kuria Waithaka
Secretary
27 March 2020
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
75
The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that 
give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and of 
its profit or loss for that year. The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and Group keep proper 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Company and Group; disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group; and that enables them to 
prepare financial statements of the Company and Group that comply with prescribed financial reporting standards 
and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act 2015. They 
also accept responsibility for: 
i.	
Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation 
of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error;
ii.	
Selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and
iii.	
Making judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. 
Having made an assessment of the Company’s and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, the directors are 
not aware of any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast doubt upon the Company’s and 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their 
responsibility.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by:
---------------------------------------	
---------------------------------- 	
------------------------------------
Mr. Samuel Kimani	
Ms. Risper Alaro	
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo
Chairman	
Director	
Chief Executive 
STATEMENT OF 
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES

Report on the financial statements
Our opinion 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements 
of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (“NSE”/the “Company”) 
and its subsidiaries and structured entities (together, 
the “Group”) set out on pages 24 to 85, which comprise 
the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 
December 2019 and the consolidated statements of 
profit or loss and other comprehensive income, changes 
in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, together 
with the separate statement of financial position of the 
Company at 31 December 2019, the statements of 
profit or loss and other comprehensive income, changes 
in equity and cash flows of the Company for the year 
then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies.
In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and 
fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the 
Company at 31 December 2019 and of their financial 
performance and cash flows for the year then ended 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan 
Companies Act, 2015.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
section of our report. 
We are independent of the Group and the Company 
in accordance with the International Ethics Standards 
Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 
statements in Kenya, and we have fulfilled our ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the IESBA Code.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S  
REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS  
OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES  
EXCHANGE PLC
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. 
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgement, were of most significance in our 
audit of the financial statements of the current period. 
We have determined that there are no key audit matters 
to report.
Other information
 
The other information comprises the Corporate 
information, Directors’ report, Corporate governance 
statement, Statement of directors’ responsibilities, 
Director’s remuneration report and Appendix I and 
II which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s 
report and the rest of the other information in the 
Annual Report, which are expected to be made available 
to us after that date but does not include the financial 
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The 
directors are responsible for the other information. Our 
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the 
other information and we do not and will not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed  on the 
other information we have received prior to the date of 
this auditor’s report we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required 
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this 
regard.
With effect from 11 December 2019, PricewaterhouseCoopers, a partnership carrying on business under registration number BN.287839 was converted to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (LLP-2Y1AB7), a limited liability partnership under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act, 2011.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. PwC Tower, Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road, Westlands      
P O Box 43963 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya      
T: +254 (20)285 5000 F: +254 (20)285 5001    www.pwc.com/ke
Partners: E Kerich  B Kimacia  M Mugasa  A Murage  F Muriu  P Ngahu  R Njoroge  S O Norbert’s  B Okundi  K Saiti

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
77
Report on the financial statements
(Continued) 
When we read the rest of the other information in the 
Annual Report and we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial 
statements
The directors are responsible for the preparation of 
financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan 
Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal control as 
the directors determine is necessary to enable the 
preparation of financial statements that are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are 
responsible for assessing the Group’s and Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using 
the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors 
either intend to liquidate the Group or Company or to 
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to 
do so. 
 
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise 
professional judgement and maintain professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher 
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control. 
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not 
for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s or Company’s internal 
control.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by the directors. 
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on 
the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 
in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in 
the financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the 
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group or Company to 
cease to continue as a going concern. 
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statements 
represent the underlying transactions and events in 
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain 
sufficient 
appropriate 
audit 
evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities 
or business activities within the Group to express 
an opinion on the Group’s financial statements. We 
are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the Group audit. We remain solely 
responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant 
deficiencies in internal control that we identify during 
our audit.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF 
THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC (CONTINUED)

Report on the financial statements (Continued) 
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in 
the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in 
extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
Report on other matters prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 
Report of the Directors
In our opinion the information given in the report of the directors on page 2 to 3 is consistent with the financial 
statements.
Directors’ remuneration report
In our opinion the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 14 to 18 has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
Certified Public Accountants 	
27 March 2020	
Nairobi	
FCPA Richard Njoroge, Practising Certificate No. 1244.
Signing partner responsible for the independent audit
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF 
THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
79
Group 
               Company
Notes
2019
2018
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Revenue
6
567,382
626,191
567,382
626,191
Interest income
9
89,109    
116,341
73,641   
100,977
Other income
10
59,147
39,870
50,219
39,870
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
Total income
715,638
782,402
691,242
767,038
Administrative expenses
(625,403)    
(560,565)
(619,592)
(556,528)
Share of profit of associate
15 (b)
14,264
19,012
10,424
19,012
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
Profit before income tax
7
104,499
240,849
82,074
229,522
Income tax expense
11 (a)
(24,346)
(50,171)
(21,237)
(46,875)
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
Profit for the year
80,153
190,678
60,837
182,647
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or 
loss
Revaluation movements on buildings                                                      
-    
(3,208)
- 
(3,208)
Fair value loss on equity instruments at fair value 
through other comprehensive income net of
deferred tax
(18,416)
-
(18,416)
-
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
Total items that will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss
(18,416) 
(3,208)
(18,416)
(3,208)
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Share of exchange differences from associate 
arising from translation of foreign operation
15 (b)
1,193
(105)
663
(105)
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
Total Items that will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss
1,193
(105)
663
(105)
 
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
Total other comprehensive income
(17,223)
(3,313)
(17,753)
(3,313)
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
Total comprehensive income for the year
62,930
187,365
43,084
179,334
===========
===========
===========
===========
Shs
Shs
Shs
Shs
Earnings per share	
 -  Basic and diluted  
29         
0.30
0.73
0.23
0.70
===========
===========
===========
===========
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
79

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
80
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (CONTINUED)
Group
               Company
Notes
2019
2018
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Profit for the year attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders of the parent                           
29
78,923
190,678
60,837
182,647
Non-controlling interests
1,230
-
-
-
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
80,153
190,678
60,837
182,647
===========
===========
===========
===========
Total comprehensive income for the year 
attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders of the parent                                                      
61,494
187,365
38,580
179,334
Non-controlling interests
16 (d)
1,436
-
-
-
_______________
_______________
_______________
_______________
62,930
187,365
38,580
179,334
===========
===========
===========
===========

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
81
Notes
2019
2018
ASSETS
Sh’000
Sh’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets 
   
Property and equipment
12
219,783
228,942
Investment property
13
313,100
309,882
Intangible assets
14
162,021
159,257
Investment in associate 
15 (b)
276,441
127,581
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – 
Quoted equity instrument
17
49,880
-
Financial assets at amortised cost - Government securities
18 (a)
79,548
91,643
Long-term restricted investments
19
199,298
156,521
Deferred income tax
20
6,865
5,688
_______________
_______________
1,306,936
1,079,514
_______________
_______________
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
21 (a)
67,464
80,526
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss - Government securities
18 (b)
32,300
-
Tax recoverable
 11 (c )
52,982
27,049
Fixed deposits
     22
149,736
464,533
Short-term restricted cash and investment
     22
289,910
338,202
Cash and cash equivalents
     22
343,073
228,564
_______________
_______________
935,465
1,138,874
_______________
_______________
TOTAL ASSETS
2,242,401
2,218,388
===========
===========
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
     24
1,038,003
1,038,003
Share premium
277,185
277,185
Retained earnings
732,992
781,224
Other reserves
323
(664)
Revaluation reserve
(18,416)
-
_______________
_______________
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent
2,030,087
2,095,748
Non-controlling interest
16 (e)
56,113
-
_______________
_______________
Total equity
2,086,200
2,095,748
_______________
_______________
Non-current liabilities
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
25
35,250
-
Tenant deposits
26 (a)
1,829
2,711
_______________
_______________
37,079
2,711
_______________
_______________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
26 (b)
85,846
93,870
Dividends payable
     27
30,876
23,859
Trading members’ contributions
2,400
2,200
_______________
_______________
119,122
119,929
_______________
_______________
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES
2,242,401
2,218,388
===========
===========
The financial statements on pages 79 to 131 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 
March 2020 and were signed on its behalf by:
--------------------------------------	
---------------------------------- 	
------------------------------------           
Mr. Samuel Kimani	
Ms. Risper Alaro	
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo 
Chairman	
Director	
Chief Executive 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER 2019

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
82
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER 2019
Notes
2019
2018
ASSETS
Sh’000
Sh’000
Non-current assets
Property and equipment
12
219,779
228,942
Investment property
13
313,100
309,882
Intangible assets
14
162,021
159,257
Investment in associate
15(b)
134,731
127,581
Investment in subsidiaries and structured entities
16
207,000
130,000
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – 
Quoted equity instrument
17
49,880
-
Financial assets at amortised cost - Government securities
18 (a)
79,548
91,643
Deferred income tax
20
3,879
3,711
_______________
________________
1,169,938
1,051,016
_______________
_______________
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
21 (a)
67,204
78,126
Due from related party
3,306
4,023
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss - Government securities
18 (b)
32,300
-
Tax recoverable
 11 (c)
50,017
24,155
Fixed deposits
     22
149,736
464,533
Short-term restricted cash and investments
     22
289,910
338,202
Cash and cash equivalents
     22
339,698
228,544
_______________
_______________
932,171
1,137,583
_______________
_______________
TOTAL ASSETS
2,102,109
2,188,599
===========
===========
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
     24
1,038,003
1,038,003
Share premium
277,185
277,185
Retained earnings
689,070
755,388
Other reserves
(1)
(664)
Revaluation reserve
(18,416)
-
_______________
_______________
Shareholders’ funds
1,985,841
2,069,912
_______________
_______________
Non-current liabilities
Tenant deposits
26(a)
1,829
2,711
_______________
_______________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
26 (b)
83,863
92,117
Dividends payable
     27
30,376
23,859
Due to NSE Investor Protection Fund
200
-
_______________
_______________
114,439
115,976
_______________
_______________
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES
2,102,109
2,188,599
===========
===========
The financial statements on pages 79 to 132 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 
March 2020 and were signed on its behalf by:
---------------------------------------	
---------------------------------- 	
------------------------------------
Mr. Samuel Kimani	
Ms. Risper Alaro	
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo 
Chairman	
Director	
Chief Executive 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
83
Share 
capital
Sh’000
Share 
premium
Sh’000
Other
  reserves
Sh’000
Revaluation
reserve
Sh’000
Retained 
earnings
Sh’000
Due to 
    owners 
of the 
parent 
 Sh’000
Non-
controlling
interest 
Sh’000
Total
 equity
Sh’000
Year ended 31 December 2018
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
(559)
3,208
694,049
2,011,886
-
2,011,886
Impact of IFRS 9 and 15 transition adjustments:
Additional loss allowance on adoption of IFRS 9
-
-
-
-
(7,130)
(7,130)
-
(7,130)
Deferred market access fees on adoption of IFRS 15
-
-
-
-
(25,001)
(25,001)
-
(25,001)
Deferred tax thereon 
-
-
-
-
6,478
6,478
-
6,478
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
190,678
190,678
190,678
Other comprehensive income, net of tax
-
-
(105)
(3,208)
-
(3,313)
-
(3,313)
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(105)
(3,208)
190,678
187,365
-
187,365
Transactions with owners:
2017 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(77,850)
(77,850)
-
(77,850)
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
(664)
                        
-
781,224
2,095,748
-
2,095,748
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
Year ended 31 December 2019
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
(664)
-
781,224
2,095,748
-
2,095,748
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
78,923
78,923
1,230
80,153
Other comprehensive income, net of tax
-
-
987
(18,416)
-
(17,429)
206
(17,223)
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
987
(18,416)
78,923
61,494
1,436
62,930
Transactions with owners:
2018 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(127,155)
(127,155)
-
(127,155)
Non-controlling interest on acquisition of a subsidiary
of a subsidiary (note16 (e))
-
-
-
-
-
-
54,677
54,677
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
323
(18,416)
732,992
2,030,087
56,113
2,086,200
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property and valuation of equity instruments through other comprehensive income.
Other reserves relate to the Company’s share of the translation reserve of the associate. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
84
Share 
capital
Sh’000
Share 
premium
Sh’000
Other
  reserves
Sh’000
Revaluation
reserve
Sh’000
Retained 
earnings
Sh’000
Total
equity 
 Sh’000
Year ended 31 December 2018
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
(559)
3,208
675,890
1,993,727
Impact of IFRS 9 and 15 transition adjustments:
  Additional loss allowance on adoption of IFRS 9
-
-
-
-
(6,623)
(6,623)
  Deferred market access fees on adoption of IFRS 15
-
-
-
-
(25,001)
(25,001)
  Deferred tax thereon
-
-
-
-
6,325
6,325
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
182,647
182,647
Other comprehensive income, net of tax
-
-
(105)
(3,208)
-
(3,313)
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(105)
(3,208)
182,647
179,334
Transactions with owners:
2017 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(77,850)
(77,850)
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
(664)
                        -
755,388
2,069,912
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
Year ended 31 December 2019
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
(664)
-
755,388
2,069,912
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
60,837
60,837
Other comprehensive income, net of tax
-
-
663
(18,416)
-
(17,753)
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
663
(18,416)
60,837
43,084
Transactions with owners:
2018 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(127,155)
(127,155)
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
(1)             (18,416)
689,070
1,985,841
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property and valuation of equity instruments through other comprehensive income.
Other reserves relates to the Company’s share of the translation reserve of the associate.
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED  31 DECEMBER 2019

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
85
Group
Company
Notes
2019
2018
2019
2018
Sh’000 
Sh’000 
Sh’000 
Sh’000 
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations
28
100,717
124,642
104,928
127,717
Tax paid
11 (c)
 (46,900)
(57,491)
(42,663)
(53,525)
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
Net cash from operating activities
53,817
67,151
            
62,265
     74,192
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property and equipment
12
(29,804)
(40,846)
       (29,804)
(40,846)
Purchase of intangible assets 
14
(24,645)
(22,881)
(24,645)
(22,881)
Interest received
89,109
116,341
73,641
100,977
Dividend received from associate 
15 (b)
3,937
2,700
           3,937 
2,700
Dividends received by subsidiary
3,150
-
-
-
Net investment in fixed deposits
314,797
(203,145)
314,797
(203,145)
Investment in restricted investments
(42,777)
(8,635)
-
-
Decrease in tenant deposits
(882)
(1,119)
(882)
(1,119)
Proceeds on disposal of equipment
2,588
551
2,588
551
Net investment in treasury bonds
(20,205)
237,021
(20,205)
237,021
Investment in quoted investment
17
(72,900)
-
(72,900)
-
Investment in subsidiary
16 (b)
(77,000)
-
(77,000)
-
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
Net cash generated from investing activities
145,368
79,987
169,527
73,258
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
 
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid
27
(120,543)
(73,860)
(120,638)
(73,860)
Contributions from clearing members
35,250
-
-
-
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
Net cash used in financing activities
(85,293)
(73,860)
(120,638)
(73,860)
_____________
_____________
____________
_____________
Increase in cash and cash equivalents
113,892
73,278
111,154
73,590
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of year
22
229,308
156,030
229,286
155,696
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year
22
      343,200
       229,308
      340,440
229,286
==========
==========
==========
==========
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED  31 DECEMBER 2019

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
86
1	
REPORTING ENTITY
The Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc (NSE/the 
“Company”/the “Exchange”), formerly known as 
the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited, was 
incorporated in Kenya under the Companies Act 
and is domiciled in Kenya. The NSE is licensed as an 
exchange by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) of 
Kenya and obtained a license on 19 October 2015 to 
operate a derivatives exchange. The NSE currently 
has the primary market services as a main line of 
business. The consolidated financial statements of 
the Group at and for the year ended 31 December 
2019 comprise the Company and subsidiaries and 
controlled structured entities (collectively referred 
to as the “Group”) and reflect the Company’s interest 
in an associate company.
2	
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR 
FINANCIAL POSITION
The principal accounting policies applied in the 
preparation of these financial statements are set 
out below. These policies have been consistently 
applied to all years presented, unless otherwise 
stated.
a)	
Statement of compliance 
The financial statements have been prepared 
on a going concern basis and in compliance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), 
IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) applicable 
to companies reporting under IFRS and the Kenyan 
Companies Act, 2015. The IFRS are issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board.
b)	
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements comprise a profit and 
loss account (statement of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income), balance sheet (statement 
of financial position), statement of changes in 
equity, statement of cash flows, and notes. Income 
and expenses, excluding the components of other 
comprehensive income (OCI), are recognised in 
the profit or loss. Other comprehensive income 
is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and comprises items of income and expense 
(including reclassification adjustments) that are 
not recognised in the profit or loss as required or 
permitted by IFRS. Reclassification adjustments 
are amounts reclassified to the profit or loss in 
the current period that were recognised in other 
comprehensive income in the current or previous 
periods. Transactions with the owners of the 
Company in their capacity as owners are recognised 
in the statement of changes in equity.
	
i.	 Basis of measurement 
The measurement basis used is the historical 
cost basis except where otherwise stated in the 
accounting policies below.
Under the historical cost basis, assets are recorded 
at the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or 
the fair value of the consideration given to acquire 
them at the time of their acquisition. Liabilities are 
recorded at the amount of proceeds received in 
exchange for the obligation or, in some cases, at the 
amounts of cash or cash equivalents expected to 
be paid to satisfy the liability in the normal course 
of business.
For those assets and liabilities measured at fair 
value, fair value is the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants at 
the measurement date. When measuring the fair 
value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market 
observable data as far as possible. If the fair value of 
an asset or a liability is not directly observable, it is 
estimated by the Group using valuation techniques 
that maximise the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimise the use of unobservable inputs (e.g. 
by use of the market comparable approach that 
reflects recent transaction prices for similar items 
or discounted cash flow analysis). Inputs used are 
consistent with the characteristics of the asset/
liability that market participants would take into 
account.
ii.     Use of estimates and judgment 
The 
preparation 
of 
financial 
statements 
in 
conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain 
critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
the directors to exercise their judgment in the 
process of applying the Group’s and Company’s 
accounting policies. The areas involving a higher 
degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where 
assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
87
2	
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR 
FINANCIAL POSITION (CONTINUED)
b) Basis of preparation (Continued)
iii.   Adoption of new and revised International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
New and amended standards adopted by the 
Group
The following standards and interpretations became 
effective for the first time in the financial year 
beginning 1 January 2019 and have been adopted 
by the Group.
IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ will affect primarily the accounting 
by lessees and will result in the recognition of 
almost all leases on balance sheet. The standard 
removes the current distinction between operating 
and financing leases and requires recognition of 
an asset (the right to use the leased item) and a 
financial liability to pay rentals for virtually all lease 
contracts. An optional exemption exists for short-
term and low-value leases.  
The statement of profit or loss will also be affected 
because the total expense is typically higher in the 
earlier years of a lease and lower in later years. 
Additionally, operating expense will be replaced 
with interest and depreciation, so key metrics like 
EBITDA will change. Operating cash flows will be 
higher as cash payments for the principal portion 
of the lease liability are classified within financing 
activities. Only the part of the payments that reflects 
interest can continue to be presented as operating 
cash flows. 
The accounting by lessors will not significantly 
change. Some differences may arise as a result of 
the new guidance on the definition of a lease. Under 
IFRS 16, a contract is, or contains, a lease if the 
contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration. The above amendment did not have 
an effect on the Group’s profit or loss or financial 
statement of position and had no impact on the 
accounting policies.
The above amendment did not have a significant 
impact on the Group’s profit or loss or financial 
position as the Group does not have material leases 
within the scope of the standard.
New and revised standards and interpretations 
not yet adopted by the Group
The Group has not applied any new or revised 
standards and interpretations that have been 
published but are not yet effective for the year 
beginning 1 January 2019, and the directors do 
not plan to apply any of them until they become 
effective. 
There are no new or revised standards that are not 
yet effective and that would be expected to have 
a material impact on the Group in the current or 
future reporting periods and on foreseeable future 
transactions.
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES 
3.1	Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise 
the financial statements of the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange Plc and its subsidiaries, controlled 
structured entities and interest in associate 
company made up to 31 December 2019. The 
subsidiaries and structured entities undertakings 
have been fully consolidated. 
(i)	
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured 
entities) over which the group has control. The 
group controls an entity when the group is 
exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from 
its involvement with the entity and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over the 
entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the 
date on which control is transferred to the group. 
They are deconsolidated from the date that control 
ceases.
The group applies the acquisition method to account 
for business combinations. The consideration 
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the 
fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities 
incurred to the former owners of the acquiree 
and the equity interests issued by the group. The 
consideration transferred includes the fair value 
of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. 
The group recognises any non-controlling interest 
in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition 
basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interest’s proportionate share of the recognised 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
88
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.1	 Basis of consolidation (Continued)
(i)	
Subsidiaries (Continued)
amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net assets. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, 
the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s 
previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-
measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any 
gains or losses arising from such re-measurement 
are recognised in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by 
the group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the 
contingent consideration that is deemed to be an 
asset or liability is recognised in accordance with 
IFRS 9 either in profit or loss or as a change to other 
comprehensive income. Contingent consideration 
that is classified as equity is not re-measured, and 
its subsequent settlement is accounted for within 
equity. The excess of the consideration transferred, 
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the 
acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any 
previous equity interest in the acquiree over the 
fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration 
transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than 
the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary 
acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the 
difference is recognised directly in the profit or loss.
The Group financial statements incorporate the 
assets, liabilities and results of the operations 
of the NSE Clear Limited, a company formed to 
act as a central counterparty in all the derivative 
transactions and AKS Nominees Ltd. Investments 
in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses in the Company’s separate 
financial statements. Details of NSE’s subsidiary are 
set out in Note 16.    
The accounting policies of the subsidiaries have 
been changed where necessary to align them with 
the policies adopted by the Group.
(ii)	  Structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund 
and the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund 
are trusts established under the Trustee Act 
(Cap. 167) pursuant to the statutory obligations 
imposed on the NSE, as a licensed exchange, by 
the provisions of the Capital Markets (Derivatives 
Markets) Regulations, 2015 and clause 1.90 and 
1.10 of the NSE Derivatives Rules. Clause 1.90 
requires that the NSE, shall by itself or through a 
clearing house, establish and maintain a Settlement 
Guarantee Fund to strengthen the financial integrity 
of the derivatives market and ensure settlement 
of transactions in derivatives securities in case of 
default by a clearing member (CM). Clause 1.10 
requires that the NSE shall establish and maintain an 
Investor Protection Fund to satisfy specified claims 
by the investing public arising out of non-settlement 
of obligations owed to them by trading members 
or losses incurred by reason of the default of the 
trading members up to an amount specified in the 
rules. 
Management and administration of the assets and 
operations of these trusts is done by a management 
committee formed by the NSE Clear Board of 
Directors. The Trustees of the funds act as the 
custodians and trustees of the assets of these 
Funds as defined in the trust deeds and rules of 
these Funds. The Fund’s assets are segregated from 
the assets of the NSE and the NSE Clear Limited 
but are effectively controlled by NSE Clear Limited. 
The NSE, by virtue of its role as the parent company 
of the clearing house, NSE Clear Limited, has to 
consolidate the results of these funds in its annual 
financial statements. 
The subsidiary and structured entities are stated 
at cost less accumulated impairment losses in the 
separate financial statements of the Company. 
Separate financial statements are prepared for 
the subsidiary and the structured entities, and 
independent external audits performed.
(iii)	 Investment in associate 
Associates are those entities which the Group 
has significant influence, but not control, over the 
financial and operating policies. Significant influence 
is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 
20% to 50% of the voting power of another entity. 
The results and assets and liabilities of associates 
are incorporated in these financial statements using 
the equity method of accounting. 
Under the equity method, investments in associates 
are carried in the statement of financial position at 
cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the 
Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, 
less any impairment in the value of individual 
investments. Losses of an associate in excess of the 
Group’s interest in that associate are recognised 
only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal 
or constructive obligations or made payments on 
behalf of the associate.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
89
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING     	
      POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.2	Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions and any 
unrealized income and expenses arising from intra-
group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements. Unrealized gains 
arising from transactions with equity-accounted 
investees are eliminated against the investment to 
the extent of the Groups’ interest in the investee. 
Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as 
unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is 
no evidence of impairment.
3.3	Foreign currencies 
i)	
Functional and Presentation currency
The financial statements of each of the Group’s 
entities are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the entity 
operates (the “Functional Currency”). The financial 
statements are presented in Kenya Shilling which 
is the Group’s and the Company’s Functional and 
Presentation Currency. Except as indicated, financial 
information presented in Kenya Shillings has been 
rounded to the nearest thousand.
ii)	
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions that are transactions 
denominated, or that require settlement, in a 
foreign currency are translated into the respective 
functional currencies of the operations using 
the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. At the end of each reporting period, 
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies 
are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. 
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions 
and from the translation at year end exchange rates 
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss. 
Translation differences on non-monetary financial 
instruments, such as equities held at fair value 
through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair 
value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-
monetary financial instruments, such as equities 
classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are 
included in other comprehensive income.
3.4 Revenue recognition
The Group recognises revenue as and when it 
satisfies a performance obligation by transferring 
control of a product or service to a customer. 
The amount of revenue recognised is the amount 
the Group expects to receive in accordance with 
the terms of the contract, and excludes amounts 
collected on behalf of third parties, such as Value 
Added Tax.
Transaction levy income is based on a percentage of 
the value of shares traded and is recognised on the 
dates of the transactions.
Initial listing income is recognized in the year in which 
the listing company makes the flotation. Additional 
listing income is recognized during the year in which 
the issuing company makes announcement of the 
bonus/rights issues.  
Annual listing fee is computed on the basis of the 
daily weighted average capitalisation value of the 
listed securities for the 11 months period between 
1 January and 30 November.
Interest income from a financial asset is recognised 
on a time basis by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through the expected 
life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying 
amount on initial recognition.
Rental income from investment property is 
recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis 
over the term of the lease. 
Management services income is charged to the NSE 
Clear Limited based on direct and indirect costs 
incurred on staff assigned to the NSE Clear Limited 
and a proportion of office and administration 
overhead expenses.
Market access fees are fees charged on the 
admission of a market participant as a member 
of the Group and are recognised over a period of 
three years.
An investor protection levy of 0.01% is charged 
on the transaction value/notional value (or such 
other amount as may be determined by the NSE 
in consultation with the CMA), for all transactions 
in derivative securities which levy is remitted to the 
Investor Protection Fund. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
90
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.5 Property and equipment
The building is carried at valuation less any 
subsequent accumulated depreciation. Revaluations 
are performed with sufficient regularity to ensure 
that the carrying amount does not differ materially 
from that which would be determined using fair 
value at the end of the year. The frequency of 
valuation is annual.
Motor vehicles and equipment are stated at cost 
less accumulated depreciation and any impairment 
losses.
Professional valuations on buildings are carried out 
in accordance with the Group policy. The fair value 
is determined based on the market comparable 
approach that reflects recent transaction prices 
for similar properties. In estimating the fair value 
of the properties, the highest and best use of the 
properties is their current use. There has been no 
change to the valuation technique during the year.
Increases in the carrying amounts of property 
resulting from revaluation is recognized in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, 
except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation 
decrease for the same asset previously recognized 
in profit or loss, in which case the increase is credited 
to profit or loss to the extent of the decrease 
previously expensed. A decrease in carrying amount 
arising on the revaluation of buildings is recognized 
in profit or loss to the extent that it exceeds the 
balance, if any, held in the properties revaluation 
reserve relating to a previous revaluation of that 
asset.
Each year the difference between depreciation 
based on the revalued carrying amount of an asset 
(the depreciation charged to profit or loss) and 
depreciation based on the asset’s original cost is 
transferred from the revaluation surplus to retained 
earnings.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis 
to write down the cost of each asset to its residual 
value over its estimated useful life as follows:
Motor vehicles	
	
	
4 years
Furniture, fittings and partitions	
8 years
Office equipment	 	
	
4 years
Computer equipment   	
	
4 years
Buildings	 	
	
	
Over the  	
                                                             remaining 	
                                                             period of the 	
                                                             lease 
An asset’s carrying amount is written down 
immediately to its estimated recoverable amount 
if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its 
estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of equipment are 
determined as the difference between the sales 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset 
at the date of disposal and taken into account 
in determining operating profit. Gains or losses 
arising from changes in fair value of the building 
are included in other comprehensive income in the 
period in which they arise net of deferred taxes.
3.6 Intangible assets
Intangible assets represent computer software 
which is stated at cost less amortisation. Amortisation 
is calculated to write-off software on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful life of 4 – 10 years.
3.7 Impairment of tangible and intangible 
assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Group 
reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and 
intangible assets to determine whether there is 
any indication that those assets have suffered an 
impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the 
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated and 
an impairment loss is recognized in profit or loss 
whenever the carrying amount of the asset exceeds 
its recoverable amount.
3.8	 Investment property
Investment property, which is property held to earn 
rentals, is stated at its fair value, at the reporting 
date as determined through its revaluation by 
external valuers on the basis of the highest and 
best use. Gains or losses arising from changes in 
fair value of the investment property are included 
in profit or loss in the year in which they arise net of 
deferred taxes. 
3.9	 Restricted cash and investments
The Group classifies all cash, cash equivalents and 
investments that are not available for general use by 
the Group, either due to regulatory requirements 
or through restrictions in specific agreements, 
as restricted in the accompanying statement of 
financial position.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
91
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.9	 Restricted cash and investments 
(Continued)
Short-term restricted cash and investments
As required by the Capital Markets (Derivatives 
Markets) Regulations, 2015, the Group is required 
to maintain a minimum liquid net-worth capital 
requirement equal to one half of the total estimated 
operating costs for the next twelve (12) months 
period. At 31 December 2019, this amount was Sh 
290 million (2018: Sh 338 million). The amounts are 
reflected as short-term restricted investments (note 
22).
Long-term restricted cash and investments
The NSE has contributed Sh 20 million, Sh 100 
million and Sh 10 million as seed capital to the 
subsidiary, NSE Clear Limited, and the structured 
entities, NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee 
Fund and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection 
Fund respectively. These amounts could be used 
in the event of a clearing/trading member’s default 
where the amount of the defaulting clearing/trading 
member’s initial, variation and additional margins 
and guarantee fund deposits are insufficient. These 
amounts together with related earned interest are 
held in bank deposits that have been classified as 
restricted (note 19).
3.10	 Financial instruments
(i)	
Equity Instruments
Equity instruments are instruments that meet the 
definition of equity from the issuer’s perspective; 
that is, instruments that do not contain a contractual 
obligation to pay and that evidence a residual 
interest in the issuer’s net assets e.g. basic ordinary 
shares. 
The 
Group 
management 
has 
elected, 
at 
initial recognition, to irrevocably designate an 
equity investment at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI) and therefore, 
measures all equity investments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. The Group’s policy 
is to designate equity investments as FVOCI when 
those investments are held for purposes other than 
to generate investment returns. When this election 
is used, fair value gains and losses are recognised in 
OCI and are subsequently not reclassified to profit or 
loss, including on disposal. Impairment losses (and 
reversals of impairment losses) are not reported 
separately from other changes in fair values. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Dividends, when representing a return on such 
investments, continue to be recognised in profit 
or loss as other income when the Group’s right to 
receive payment is established.
(ii)	 Debt instruments 
a)	 Recognition and subsequent measurement
Financial instruments are recognised when, and only 
when, the Group becomes party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. All financial assets are 
recognised initially using the trade date accounting 
which is the date the Group commits itself to the 
purchase or sale. 
At initial recognition, financial assets are measured 
at fair value, and are classified and subsequently 
measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), 
fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVTOCI) or amortized cost based on: 
•	 the Group’s business model for managing the 
financial assets; and 
•	 the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
Based on these factors, the Group classifies its 
financial assets into one of the following three 
measurement categories:
•	 Amortised cost: Assets that are held for 
collection of contractual cash flows where those 
cash flows represent solely payments of principal 
and interest are measured at amortised cost. 
Interest income from these financial assets is 
included in finance income using the effective 
interest rate method. Any gain or loss arising 
on derecognition is recognised directly in profit 
or loss and presented in other gains/ (losses) 
together with foreign exchange gains and losses. 
Impairment losses are presented as separate 
line item in the statement of profit or loss.
•	 FVTOCI: Assets that are held for collection 
of contractual cash flows and for selling the 
financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows 
represent solely payments of principal and 
interest, are measured at FVTOCI. Movements 
in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, 
except for the recognition of impairment gains 
or losses, interest income and foreign exchange 
gains and losses which are recognised in profit 
or loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, 
the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised 
in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss 
and recognised in other gains/ (losses). Interest 
income from these financial assets is included 

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
92
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.10	 Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii) Debt instruments  (Continued)
a)	 Recognition and subsequent measurement 
(Continued)
   •	FVTOCI (Continued): in finance income using 
the effective interest rate method. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses are presented in 
other gains/ (losses) and impairment expenses 
are presented as separate line item in the 
statement of profit or loss.
    •	FVTPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria 
for amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at 
FVTPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is 
subsequently measured at FVTPL is recognised 
in profit or loss and presented net within other 
gains/ (losses) in the period in which it arises.
Business model: the business model reflects how 
the Group manages the assets in order to generate 
cash flows i.e. whether the Group’s objective is 
solely to collect the contractual cash flows from 
the assets or is to collect both the contractual cash 
flows and cash flows arising from the sale of assets. 
If neither of these is applicable (e.g. financial assets 
held for trading purposes), then the financial assets 
are classified as part of ‘other’ business model 
and measured at FVTPL. Factors considered by 
the Group in determining the business model for 
a group of assets include past experience on how 
the cash flows for these assets were collected, how 
the asset’s performance is evaluated and reported 
to key management personnel and how risks are 
assessed and managed.
SPPI: Where the business model is to hold assets to 
collect contractual cash flows or to collect contractual 
cash flows and sell, the Group assesses whether the 
financial instruments’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI test’). 
In making this assessment, the Group considers 
whether the contractual cash flows are consistent 
with a basic lending arrangement i.e. includes only 
consideration for the time value of money, credit 
risk, other basic lending risks and a profit margin 
that is consistent with a basic lending arrangement. 
Where the contractual terms introduce exposure 
to risk or volatility that are inconsistent with a basic 
lending arrangement, the related financial asset is 
classified and measured at fair value through profit 
or loss. 
The Group reclassifies financial assets when and 
only when its business model for managing those 
assets changes.
b) Impairment 
The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected 
credit losses (ECL) on financial assets that are 
measured at amortised cost or at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. 
The loss allowance is measured at an amount 
equal to the lifetime expected credit losses for 
financial instruments for which: (a) the credit risk 
has increased significantly since initial recognition; 
or (b) there is observable evidence of impairment (a 
credit-impaired financial asset). If, at the reporting 
date, the credit risk on a financial asset other than a 
trade receivable has not increased significantly since 
initial recognition, the loss allowance is measured 
for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 
12-month expected credit losses. All changes in the 
loss allowance are recognised in profit or loss as 
impairment gains or losses.
Lifetime expected credit losses represent the 
expected credit losses that result from all possible 
default events over the expected life of a financial 
instrument. 12-month expected credit losses 
represent the portion of lifetime expected credit 
losses that result from default events on a financial 
asset that are possible within 12 months after the 
reporting date.
Expected credit losses are measured in a way that 
reflects an unbiased and probability-weighted 
amount determined by evaluating a range of possible 
outcomes, the time value of money, and reasonable 
and supportable information that is available 
without undue cost or effort at the reporting date 
about past events, current conditions and forecasts 
of future economic conditions.
In applying the IFRS 9 impairment requirements, the 
Group follows one of the approaches below:
•	 The general approach
•	 The simplified approach
The General Approach
Under the general approach, at each reporting date, 
the Group determines whether the financial asset 
is in one of the three stages below, to determine 
both the amount of ECL to recognise as well as how 
interest income should be recognised.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
93
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.10	 Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii)	 Debt instruments  (Continued)
b)	
Impairment (Continued)
The General Approach (Continued)
•	 Stage 1  - where credit risk has not increased 
significantly since initial recognition. For financial 
assets in stage 1, the Group will recognise 12 
month ECL and recognise interest income on 
a gross basis – this means that interest will be 
calculated on the gross carrying amount of the 
financial asset before adjusting for ECL.
•	 Stage 2  - where credit risk has increased 
significantly since initial recognition. When a 
financial asset transfers to stage 2, the Group 
will recognise lifetime ECL but interest income 
will continue to be recognised on a gross basis.
•	 Stage 3  - where the financial asset is credit 
impaired. This is effectively the point at which 
there has been an incurred loss event.  For 
financial assets in stage 3, the Group will 
continue to recognise lifetime ECL but they will 
now recognise interest income on a net basis. As 
such, interest income will be calculated based on 
the gross carrying amount of the financial asset 
less ECL. 
	
An asset is credit-impaired if one or more events 
have occurred that have a detrimental impact on 
the estimated future cash flows of the asset. 
The changes in the loss allowance balance are 
recognised in profit or loss as an impairment gain 
or loss.
The Simplified approach
Under the simplified approach, the Group measures 
the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime 
expected credit losses.
Definition of default
The Group will consider a financial asset to be in 
default when:
•	 the counterparty or borrower is unlikely to pay 
their credit obligations to the Group in full, without 
recourse by the Group to actions such as realising 
security (if any is held); or
•	 the counterparty or borrower is more than 90 
days past due on any material credit obligation 
to the Group. This will be consistent with the 
rebuttable criteria set out by IFRS 9 and existing 
practice of the Group; or
In assessing whether the counterparty or borrower 
is in default, the Group considers indicators that are:
•	 Qualitative: e.g. Breach of covenant and other 
indicators of financial distress;
•	 Quantitative: e.g. Overdue status and non-
payment of another obligation of the same issuer 
to the Company; and
•	 Based on data developed internally and obtained 
from external sources. 
Inputs into the assessment of whether a financial 
instrument is in default and their significance may 
vary over time to reflect changes in circumstances. 
Significant increase in credit risk (SIICR)
When determining whether the credit risk (i.e. risk 
of default) on a financial instrument has increased 
significantly since initial recognition, the Group 
considers reasonable and supportable information 
that is relevant and available without undue cost or 
effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative 
information and analysis based on the Group’s 
historical experience, expert credit assessment and 
forward-looking information.
The Group primarily identifies whether a significant 
increase in credit risk has occurred for an exposure 
by comparing:
•	
The remaining lifetime probability of default (PD) 
as at the reporting date; with
•	
The remaining lifetime PD for this point in time 
that was estimated on initial recognition of the 
exposure.
The assessment of significant deterioration is key 
in establishing the point of switching between the 
requirement to measure an allowance based on 
12-month expected credit losses and one that is 
based on lifetime expected credit losses.
The Group monitors the effectiveness of the criteria 
used to identify significant increases in credit risk by 
regular reviews to confirm that:
•	 the criteria are capable of identifying significant 
increases in credit risk before an exposure is in 
default;
•	 the criteria do not align with the point in time 
when an asset becomes 30 days past due;
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
94
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.10	 Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii)	 Debt instruments  (Continued)
b)	
Impairment (Continued)
Significant increase in credit risk (SIICR) 
(Continued)
•	 the average time between the identification of 
a significant increase in credit risk and default 
appears reasonable;
•	 exposures are not generally transferred from 
12-month ECL measurement to credit-impaired; 
and
•	 there is no unwarranted volatility in loss 
allowance from transfers between 12-month 
and lifetime ECL measurements.
Measurement of ECL
The key inputs into the measurement of ECL are the 
term structures of the following variables: 
•	 Probability of Default (PD)
•	
Loss given default (LGD) and
•	
Exposure at default (EAD)
To determine lifetime and 12-month PDs, the Group 
uses externally developed PD tables based on the 
default history of obligors with the same credit 
rating. The Group adopts the same approach for 
unrated investments by mapping external credit 
ratings. Changes in the rating for a counterparty or 
exposure lead to a change in the estimate of the 
associated PD.
LGD is the magnitude of the likely loss if there is 
a default. The Group estimates LGD parameters 
based on the history of recovery rates of claims 
against defaulted counterparties. The LGD models 
consider the structure, collateral, seniority of the 
claim, counterparty industry and recovery costs of 
any collateral that is integral to the financial asset. 
EAD represents the expected exposure in the event 
of a default. The Group derives the EAD from the 
current exposure to the counterparty and potential 
changes to the current amount allowed under the 
contract, including amortisation, and prepayments. 
The EAD of a financial asset is its gross carrying 
amount.
As described above, and subject to using a maximum 
of a 12-month PD for financial assets for which credit 
risk has not significantly increased, the Group measures 
ECL considering the risk of default over the maximum 
contractual period over which it is exposed to credit 
risk, even if, for risk management purposes, the Group 
considers a longer period. Where modelling of a 
parameter is carried out on a collective basis, the 
financial instruments are grouped on the basis of 
shared risk characteristics, which include: instrument 
type; credit risk grading; collateral type; date of initial 
recognition; remaining term to maturity.
The groupings are subject to regular review to 
ensure that exposures within a group remain 
appropriately homogeneous.
When ECLs are measured using parameters based 
on collective modelling, a significant input into the 
measurement of ECL is the external benchmark 
information that the Group uses to derive the 
default rates of its portfolios. This includes the PDs 
provided by rating agencies.
Trade and other receivables
Expected credit losses are computed as a product 
of the Probability of Default (PD), Loss Given Default 
(LGD) and the Exposure at Default (EAD).
ECL = PD x LGD x EAD
c)	
Modification of contracts 
The Group rarely renegotiates or otherwise modifies 
the contractual cash flows of securities. When this 
happens, the Group assesses whether or not the 
new terms are substantially different to the original 
terms. The Group does this by considering, among 
others, the following factors:
•	 If the counterparty is in financial difficulty
•	 Whether 
any 
substantial 
new 
terms 
are 
introduced that affect the risk profile of the 
instrument
•	 Significant extension of the contract term when 
the borrower is not in financial difficulty
•	 Significant change in interest rate
•	 Change 
in 
the 
currency 
the 
security 
is 
denominated in
•	 Inclusion of collateral, other security or credit 
enhancements that significantly affect the credit 
risk associated with the loan
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
95
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.10	 Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii)	 Debt instruments  (Continued)
c)	
Modification of contracts  (Continued)
If the terms are substantially different, the Group 
derecognises the original financial asset and 
recognises a ‘new’ asset at fair value and recalculates 
a new EIR for the asset. The date of renegotiation 
is consequently considered the date of initial 
recognition for impairment calculation purposes, 
including the purpose of determining whether a 
SICR has occurred. 
If the terms are not substantially different and the 
renegotiation or modification does not result in 
derecognition, the Group recalculates the gross 
carrying amount based on the revised cash flows 
of the financial asset and recognises a modification 
gain or loss in profit or loss. The new gross carrying 
amount is recalculated by discounting the modified 
cash flows at the original EIR.
d)	
Write off policy
The Group writes off financial assets, in whole 
or in part when it has exhausted all practical 
recovery effort and has concluded that there is 
no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators 
that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery 
include (i) ceasing enforcement activity; and (ii) the 
Group is foreclosing on collateral and the value 
of the collateral is such as there is no reasonable 
expectation of recovering in full.
The Group may write-off financial assets that are 
still subject to enforcement activity. The Group still 
seeks to recover amounts it is legally owed in full, 
but which have been partially written off due to no 
reasonable expectation of full recovery.
3.11	Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, 
cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand 
and demand deposits and other short term liquid 
investments which are readily convertible into 
known amounts of cash and which were within three 
months of maturity when acquired, less advances 
from banks repayable within three months from the 
dates of the advances.
3.12	 Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the 
current income tax and deferred income tax.
Current income tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit 
for the year.  Taxable profit differs from profit as 
reported in the statement of profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income because of items of 
income or expense that are taxable or deductible 
in other years and items that are never taxable or 
deductible.  The Group’s liability for current tax is 
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting 
period.
Management 
establishes 
provisions 
where 
appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to 
be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation 
of taxable profit.  
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for 
all deductible temporary differences to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which those deductible temporary 
differences are utilised.  
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises from 
good will or from the initial recognition (other than 
in a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the 
taxable profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying 
amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the 
end of each reporting period and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of 
the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised 
for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax 
liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates 
that are expected to apply in the period in which 
the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on 
tax rates that have been enacted by the end of the 
reporting period.  The measurement of deferred tax 
liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences 
that would follow from the manner in which the 
Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, 
to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets 
and liabilities.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
96
3	
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.12	 Taxation (Continued)
Current and deferred income tax for the year
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit 
or loss, except when they relate to items that 
are recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity, in which case, the current 
and deferred tax are also recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
3.13	 Employee entitlements
Employee entitlements to annual leave are 
recognised when they accrue to employees. A 
provision is made for the estimated liability for 
annual leave as a result of services rendered by 
employees up to the date of reporting.
3.14	 Segmental reporting
The Group determines and presents operating 
segments based on the information that is internally 
provided to the chief operating decision maker 
(Group management). An operating segment is a 
component of the Group that engages in business 
activities from which it may earn revenues and 
incur expenses, including revenues and expenses 
that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s 
other components. Costs in the NSE are managed 
holistically across the Exchange and variances 
against budget are closely monitored. Information 
technology and corporate overheads are not 
generally allocated to a particular segment. 
3.15	 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a defined contribution 
provident scheme for all its employees.  The scheme 
is administered by Britam Life Assurance Company 
(Kenya) Limited and is funded by contributions from 
both the Group and employees. The Group also 
contributes to a statutory contribution pension 
scheme, the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). 
The Group’s obligations under the scheme are 
limited to specific contributions legislated from time 
to time. The Group’s contributions to these schemes 
are charged to the profit or loss in the year in which 
they relate.
3.16	 Dividends payable
Dividends payable on ordinary shares are charged 
to retained earnings in the period in which they are 
declared. Proposed dividends are not accrued for 
until ratified in an Annual General Meeting.
3.17	 Earnings per share
The Group presents earnings per share (EPS) 
data for its ordinary shareholders in the financial 
statements. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the 
profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 
of the NSE by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares outstanding during the period. 
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit 
or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders by 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding adjusted for the effects of all potentially 
dilutive shares.
3.18	 Shares reserves and share premium
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental 
costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares 
are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from 
the proceeds.
3.19	 Minimum liquid net worth requirement 
The Capital Markets (Derivatives Market) Regulations, 
2015 clause 15 (1) and 15 (2) require that a futures 
exchange have and maintain a minimum liquid 
net-worth equal to one half of the estimated gross 
operating costs of the futures exchange for the next 
twelve (12) month period or such other liquid net-
worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. 
The requirement is met as per Note 35.
3.20 Comparatives
Where necessary, comparative figures have been 
adjusted to conform to changes in the presentation 
in the current year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
97
4	
ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES 
OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINITY
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies, management makes estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year. 
Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated 
and are based on historical experience and other 
factors, including expectations of future events 
that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances.
The key areas of judgment and estimation in 
applying the entities accounting policies are dealt 
with below:
Taxes
The Group is subjected to numerous taxes and levies 
by various government and quasi- government 
regulatory bodies. As a rule of thumb, the Group 
recognises liabilities for the anticipated tax/levies 
payable with utmost care and diligence. However, 
judgment is usually required in the interpretation 
and applicability of those taxes/levies. Should it 
come to the attention of management, in one way 
or the other, that the initially recorded liability was 
erroneous, such differences will impact on the 
income and liabilities in the period in which such 
differences are determined. 
Valuation of financial instruments
The fair value of financial instruments where 
no active market exists or where quoted prices 
are not otherwise available are determined by 
using valuation techniques. In these cases, the 
fair values are estimated from observable data in 
respect of similar financial instruments or using 
models. Where market observable inputs are not 
available, they are estimated based on appropriate 
assumptions. Where valuation techniques (for 
example, models) are used to determine fair 
values, they are validated and periodically reviewed 
by qualified personnel independent of those that 
sourced them. The directors believe that the chosen 
valuation techniques and assumptions used in the 
valuation of its investments are appropriate in 
determining the fair value of financial instruments. 
Valuation of land and building
The fair value model has been applied in accounting 
for land and building. The Group commissioned 
external, independent and professionally qualified 
real estate valuers that hold recognised relevant 
professional 
qualification 
and 
have 
recent 
experience in  the location and type of property 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
valued to determine the fair value of the property 
as at 31 December 2019 and 2018 on the basis of 
open market value. The current use of the portion of 
the land and building accounted for as investment 
property equates to the highest and best use. 
The valuation of the land and building is derived 
by making reference to recent comparable sales 
transactions in the relevant property market. The 
Group’s land and building are valued by reference 
to a level 2 fair value measurement. 
5	
OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group entities are all domiciled in Kenya. The 
Group has two main business segments:
•	
Cash equities and interest rate market segment 
comprises the equities and bond trading 
business. This includes other income comprising 
broker back office income, rental income, data 
fees and other incomes; and
•	
Derivatives market segment comprises of 
the futures trading business. The market was 
launched in July 2019.
Each business segment offers different products 
and services and is managed separately because 
each requires different technology and a different 
marketing strategy. The information provided about 
each segment is based on the internal reports 
about segment profit or loss, assets and other 
information, which are regularly reviewed by Group 
management (the chief operating decision maker) 
and the Board. The segment results were as follows:

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
98
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
5	
OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Statement of financial position
Cash equities 
and interest rate 
market
Sh’000
Derivatives 
market
Sh’000
Total 
Sh’000 
2019
ASSETS
Government securities
111,848
-
111,848
Long-term restricted investments
-
199,298
199,298
Short-term restricted cash and investments
289,910
-
289,910
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
	
                  492,795
14
492,809
Other assets
1,148,536
-
1,148,536
______________
______________
______________
2,043,089
199,312
2,242,401
==========
==========
==========
LIABILITIES
 
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contribution
-
35,250
35,250
Trade and other payables 
84,084
1,762
85,846
Dividends payable
30,876
-
30,876
Tenant deposits
1,829
-
1,829
Trading members’ contributions
-
2,400
2,400
______________
______________
______________
116,789
39,412
156,201
==========
==========
==========
2018
 
ASSETS
Government securities
91,643
-
91,643
Long-term restricted investments
-
156,521
156,521
Short-term restricted cash and investments
338,202
-
338,202
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
693,077
20
693,097
Other assets
931,654
7,271
938,925
______________
______________
______________
2,054,576
163,812
2,218,388
==========
==========
==========
LIABILITIES
 
Trade and other payables 
92,117
1,753
93,870
Dividends payable
23,859
-
23,859
Tenant deposits
2,711
-
2,711
Trading members’ contributions
- 
2,200
2,200
______________
______________
______________
118,687
3,953
122,640
==========
==========
==========
2019
Additions to non-current assets
184,645
42,777
227,422
==========
==========
Non-current assets
1,107,638
199,298
1,306,936
==========
==========
==========
2018
Additions to non-current assets
35,548
8,130
43,678
==========
==========
==========
Non-current assets
922,993
156,521
1,079,514
==========
==========
==========

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
99
5	
OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
Cash equities 
and interest rate 
market
Sh’000
Derivatives 
market
Sh’000
Total 
Sh’000 
2019
Revenue
567,382
-
567,382
Interest income
73,681
15,428
89,109
Other income
59,141
6
59,147
______________
______________
______________
Total income
700,204
15,434
715,638
Administrative expenses 
(620,295)
(5,108)
(625,403)
Share of profit of associate
14,264
-
14,264
______________
______________
______________
Profit before income tax
94,173
10,326
104,499
==========
==========
==========
2018
 
Revenue
626,191
-
626,191
Interest income
100,977
15,364
116,341
Other income
39,870
-
39,870
______________
______________
______________
Total income
767,038
15,364
782,402
Administrative expenses 
(556,528)
(4,037)
(560,565)
Share of profit of associate
19,012
-
19,012
______________
______________
______________
Profit before income tax
229,522
11,327
240,849
==========
==========
==========
All revenues are earned in Kenya. There are no revenues derived from transactions with a single external customer 
that amounted to 10% or more of the Group’s revenues.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         Group
     Company 
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
6
REVENUE
Revenue recognized at a point in time
Transaction levy
414,827
460,968
414,827
460,968
Initial listing fees
7,000
6,500
7,000
6,500
Application and additional listing fees
3,368
1,148
3,368
1,148
______________ ______________ ______________
______________
425,195
468,616
425,195
468,616
______________ ______________ ______________
______________
Revenue recognized over time
Annual listing fees
76,057
81,621
76,057
81,621
Broker back office subscription
26,045
26,575
26,045
26,575
Market access fee
16,817
26,000
16,817
26,000
Data vending
23,268
23,379
23,268
23,379
______________ ______________ ______________
______________
142,187
157,575
142,187
157,575
______________ ______________ ______________
______________
567,382
626,191
567,382
626,191
==========
    
========== ==========
        
==========
7
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX
The profit before income tax is arrived at after 
charging/(crediting):
Employee benefits (note 8)
198,635
228,170
198,635
228,170
Staff restructuring costs
52,360
-
52,360
-
Depreciation of property and equipment (note 12)
27,758
20,703
27,758
20,703
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 14)
21,061
16,353
21,061
16,353
Directors’ emoluments: 
- Executive (note 30 (a))
26,108
23,719
26,108
23,719
- Non–executive (note 30 (a))
22,927
14,290
21,813
13,004
Auditor’s remuneration 
4,213
4,280
3,106
3,147
Gain on disposal of equipment
(1,511)
(452)
(1,511)
(452)
Revaluation deficit on valuation of building (note 12
and 14)
7,734
17,529
7,734
17,529
Increase/(decrease) in impairment of financial
assets measured at amortised cost
(note 33 (b) (iii))
4,274
(1,737)
4,237
(1,765)
========== ========== ========== ===========
8
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Salaries and wages
168,007
191,194
168,007
191,194
Bonus
11,205
13,810
11,205
13,810
Leave pay expense
2,488
4,847
2,488
4,847
Provident fund contribution
16,252
17,598
16,252
17,598
Social security costs (NSSF)
683
721
683
721
______________ ______________ ______________
______________
     198,635
228,170
198,635
228,170
========== ========== ==========
==========
The staff numbers as at 31 December 2019 were 47 (2018: 49).  

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
101
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
        Group
   Company 
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
9
INTEREST INCOME
Financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Interest on term deposits
79,579
82,731
65,190
67,367
Investments at amortised cost
 - interest on treasury bonds and bills
 - interest on corporate bonds
7,217
32,999
7,217
32,999
Interest on clearing member contribution
1,079
-
-
-
Interest on staff loans and advances
1,234
611
1,234
611
______________ ______________ ______________
______________
89,109
116,341
73,641
100,977
========== ========== ==========
==========
10
OTHER INCOME
Fair value gain on investment property (note 13)
3,218
9,279
3,218
9,279
Rental income
10,179
13,718
10,179
13,718
Miscellaneous income
5,552
3,868
5,552
3,868
Training fees
4,855
5,558
4,855
5,558
M-Akiba fees
4,959
8
4,959
8
Sale of publications and merchandising items
11,082
3,290
11,082
3,290
Private transfer fee
724
797
724
797
Nomad fees
500
550
500
550
Gain on disposal of equipment
1,511
452
1,511
452
Annual members fees 
2,400
2,350
2400
2,350
            Ibuka fees                                                                                           
5,230
-
5,230
-
IPF levy
4
-
-
-
Margin interest
2
-
-
-
Clearing fees
9
-
9
-
               Bargain purchase on acquisition of 
AKS Nominees Ltd (Note 16 (b))
8,922
-
-
-
______________ ______________ ______________
______________
59,147
39,870
50,219
39,870
========== ========== ==========
==========

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
102
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
        Group
   Company 
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
11
TAXATION
(a)
Taxation charge
Current income tax
Current year expense
20,919
52,980
16,801
49,065
Prior year under-provision on tax losses
-
(103)
                    -
-
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
20,919
52,877
16,801
49,065
Deferred income tax (note 20)
Current year charge/(credit)
3,427
(2,706)
4,436
(2,190)
______________
______________
______________
______________
24,346
50,171
21,237
46,875
==========
==========
==========
==========
(b)
Reconciliation of taxation charge to the
expected tax based on accounting profit
Profit before income tax
104,499
240,849
82,074
229,522
==========
==========
==========
==========
Tax calculated at a tax rate of 20% (2018: 20%)
16,415
45,904
16,415
45,904
Tax calculated at a tax rate of 30% (2018: 30%)
6,727
3,398
-
-
Tax effects on expenses not deductible for tax
1,204
3,633
4,822
2,465
Tax effect on revenues not allowable for tax
-
(2,661)
-
(1,494)
Prior year under-provision on tax losses
-
(103)
-
-
______________
______________
______________
______________
Income tax expense
24,346
50,171
21,237
46,875
==========
==========
==========
==========
(c)
Current income tax movement
At start of year
(27,049)
(22,435)
(24,155)
(19,695)
Charge to profit or loss
20,919
52,877
16,801
49,065
Balance acquired from subsidiary
48
-
-
-
Tax paid
(46,900)
(57,491)
(42,663)
(53,525)
______________
______________
______________
______________
At end of year
(52,982)
(27,049)
(50,017)
(24,155)
==========
==========
==========
==========
Made up of:
Current income tax recoverable
(53,042)
(27,049)
(50,017)
(24,155)
Current income tax payable
60
-
-
-
______________
______________
______________
______________
(52,982)
    (27,049)
(50,017)
 (24,155)
==========         ==========
==========       ==========

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
103
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
12 	 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT - GROUP
Building 
Sh’000
Motor 
vehicles
Sh’000
Furniture 
& fittings
Sh’000
Office 
equipment
Sh’000
Computer 
equipment
Sh’000
WIP
Sh’000
Total
Sh’000
COST OR VALUATION 
At 1 January 2018
115,695
15,615
89,674
24,480
86,155
37,853
369,472
Additions
-
-
439
1,314
3,296
37,073
42,122
Disposals
-
(2,003)
(119)
(1,167)
(6,704)
-
(9,993)
Transfer from WIP
-
-
102
-
-
(102)
-
Adjustments
-
-
(1,276)
-
-
-
(1,276)
Revaluation deficit
(20,737)
-
-
-
-
-
(20,737)
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
At 1 January 2019
94,958
13,612
88,820
24,627
82,747
74,824
379,588
Additions
4,357
12,772
583
8,376
4,355
-
30,443
Disposals
-
(8,992)
(4)
(5,410)
(26,160)
-
(40,566)
Transfer from WIP
38,537
-
-
12,456
23,192
(74,185)
-
Adjustments
-
-
-
-
-
(639)
(639)
Revaluation deficit
(10,952)
-
-
-
-
(10,952)
Acquisition from
subsidiary
-
-
-
4
-
-
4
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
At 31 December 2019
126,900
17,392
89,399
      40,053
84,134
-	
   
357,878
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
    Comprising:
At valuation
126,900
-
-
-
-
-
126,900
At cost
-
17,392
89,399
40,053
84,134
-
230,978
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
Cost or valuation
126,900
17,392
89,399
40,053
84,134
-
357,878
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 2018
-
10,154
38,908
18,925
71,850
-
139,837
Charge for the year
-
2,092
10,364
2,009
6,238
-
20,703
Eliminated on disposal
-
(2,003)
(70)
(1,167)
(6,654)
-
(9,894)
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
__________
__________
At 1 January 2019
-
10,243
49,202
19,767
71,434
-
150,646
Charge for the year
-
3,816
11,057
5,659
7,226
-
27,758
Eliminated on disposal
-
(8,992)
(4)
(5,410)
(25,903)
-
(40,309)
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
__________
__________
At 31 December 2019
-
5,067
60,255
20,016
52,757
-
138,095
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
___________
____________
NET BOOK VALUE 
At 31 December 2019
126,900
12,325
29,144
20,037
31,377
-
219,783
========
========
========
========
========
========
========
At 31 December 2018
94,958
3,369
39,618
4,860
11,313
74,824
228,942
========
========
========
========
========
========
========
   

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
104
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
12 	 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED - COMPANY 
Building 
Sh’000
Motor 
vehicles
Sh’000
Furniture 
& fittings
Sh’000
Office 
equipment
Sh’000
Computer 
equipment
Sh’000
WIP
Sh’000
Total
Sh’000
COST OR VALUATION 
At 1 January 2018
115,695
15,615
89,674
24,480
86,155
37,853
369,472
Additions
-
-
439
1,314
3,296
37,073
42,122
Disposals
-
(2,003)
(119)
(1,167)
(6,704)
-
(9,993)
Transfer from WIP
-
-
102
-
-
(102)
-
Adjustments
-
-
(1,276)
-
-
-
(1,276)
Revaluation deficit
(20,737)
-
-
-
-
-
(20,737)
___________
__________
_________
_________
_________
__________
__________
At 1 January 2019
94,958
13,612
88,820
24,627
82,747
74,824
379,588
Additions
4,357
12,772
583
8,376
4,355
-
30,443
Disposals
-
(8,992)
(4)
(5,410)
(26,160)
-
(40,566)
Transfer from WIP
38,537
-
-
12,456
23,192
(74,185)
-
Adjustments
-
-
-
-
-
(639)
(639)
Revaluation deficit
(10,952)
-
-
-
-
(10,952)
____________
___________
__________
__________
__________
___________
__________
At 31 December 2019
126,900
17,392
89,399
      40,049
84,134
-	
   
357,874
___________
__________
_________
_________
_________
__________
__________
    
Comprising:
At valuation
126,900
-
-
-
-
-
126,900
At cost
-
17,392
89,399
40,049
84,134
-
230,974
___________
__________
_________
_________
_________
__________
__________
Cost or valuation
126,900
17,392
89,399
40,049
84,134
-
357,874
___________
__________
_________
_________
_________
__________
__________
DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 2018
-
10,154
38,908
18,925
71,850
-
139,837
Charge for the year
-
2,092
10,364
2,009
6,238
-
20,703
Eliminated on disposal
-
(2,003)
(70)
(1,167)
(6,654)
-
(9,894)
___________
__________
_________
_________
_________
__________
__________
At 1 January 2019
-
10,243
49,202
19,767
71,434
-
150,646
Charge for the year
-
3,816
11,057
5,659
7,226
-
27,758
Eliminated on disposal
-
(8,992)
(4)
(5,410)
(25,903)
-
(40,309)
___________
__________
_________
_________
_________
__________
__________
At 31 December 2019
-
5,067
60,255
20,016
52,757
-
138,095
___________
__________
_________
_________
_________
_________
NET BOOK VALUE 
At 31 December 2019
126,900
12,325
29,144
20,033
31,377
-
219,779
=========
========
=======
=======
=======
========
=======
At 31 December 2018
94,958
3,369
39,618
4,860
11,313
74,824
228,942
=========
========
=======
=======
=======
========
=======
      
No depreciation has been charged in arriving at the result for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated 
equipment with a cost of Sh 52.8 million (2018: Sh 85 million) which are still in use. If depreciation had been 
charged during the year on the cost of these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to Sh 12.1 million 
(2018: Sh 20 million).
The building has been stated at its revalued amounts, being the fair value at 31 December 2019 less any 
subsequent depreciation. The revaluation was done on the basis of market comparable approach reflecting the 
highest and best use by Tysons Limited, an independent registered valuer.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
105
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
13	 INVESTMENT PROPERTY - GROUP AND COMPANY
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
            VALUATION
-
At 1 January 
309,882
300,603
Fair value gain
 3,218
9,279
___________
___________
At 31 December
313,100
309,882
========
========
The fair value of the Group’s investment property at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 have been 
arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 by Tysons Limited, 
an independent registered valuer. The fair value was adjusted for in the books of the Group and Company. The 
fair value was determined based on the market comparable approach that reflects recent transaction prices for 
similar properties. In estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best use of the properties is 
their current use. There has been no change to the valuation technique during the year.
	The following table gives information about how the fair values of these non-financial assets are determined (in 
particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used).
Fair value as at
Fair value 
hierarchy
Valuation 
technique(s) 
and key inputs
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Relationship of 
unobservable 
inputs to fair 
value
31/12/19
Sh’000
31/12/18
Sh’000
Buildings
126,900
130,118
Level 2
Market 
comparable 
approach- 
Highest and best 
use
N/A
N/A
Investment 
property
313,100
309,882
Level 2
Total
440,000
440,000

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
106
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
14   INTANGIBLE ASSETS - GROUP AND COMPANY
  …… .
Automated 
trading
system 
software
Other 
software
Broker 
back 
office
software 
Bond 
software 
license
Derivatives 
software
WIP
Total
         Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
COST
At 1 January 2018
61,169
31,768
67,931
38,191
-
105,654
304,713
Additions
-
3,081
-
-
-
19,996
23,077
Transfer from WIP
-
3,435
-
-
-
(3,435)
-
Adjustments
-
(196)
-
-
-
-
(196)
_____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
At 1 January 2019
61,169
38,088
67,931
38,191
-
122,215
327,594
Additions
5,751
7,979
4,773
-
5,555
587
24,645
Transfer from WIP
66,692
3,903
2,491
-
48,783 (121,869)
-
Disposals
(61,169)
(9,093)
-
-
-
-
(70,262)
_____________
____________
_____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
At 31 December 2019
          72,443
40,877
75,195
38,191
54,338
933
281,977
_____________
____________
_____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
AMORTISATION
At 1 January 2018
60,066
29,815
37,447
24,656
-
-
151,984
Amortisation for the year 
245
1,677
6,793
7,638
-
-
16,353
_____________
____________
_____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
At 1 January 2019
60,311
31,492
44,240
32,294
-
-
168,337
Amortisation for the year 
2,037
3,768
6,793
5,897
2,566
-
21,061
Eliminated on disposal
(60,557)
(8,885)
-
-
-
-
(69,442)
_____________
____________
_____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
At 31 December 2019
            1,791
26,375
51,033
38,191
2,566
          -
119,956
_____________
____________
_____________
____________
____________
____________
____________
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2019
70,652
14,502
24,162
-
51,722
933
162,021
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
At 31 December 2018
858
6,596
23,691
5,897
-
122,215
159,257
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
=========
No amortisation has been charged in arriving at the results for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated 
intangible assets with a cost of Sh 60.9 million (2018: Sh 86.4 million) which are still in use. If depreciation had 
been charged during the year on the cost of these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to Sh 8.8 
million (2018: Sh 12.8 million).

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
107
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
15	 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE 
The investment in associate represents an investment in Central Depository and Settlement Corporation Limited 
(CDSC). The Group held an ownership percentage of 40.5% at 31 December 2019 (2018: 22.5%). The proportion 
of the voting rights in the associate held by the Company does not differ from the proportion of ordinary shares 
held. 
(a)
Details of the associate at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Country of 
incorporation 
and operation 
Number of shares held by NSE
 @ Sh 100 per share
Proportion of ownership interest 
and voting power held by NSE
Group
       2019
2018
2019
2018
CDSC
Kenya
 708,750 
	
393,750
40.5%
22.5% 
=======
=======
=======
=======
Company
CDSC
Kenya
 393,750
393,750
22.5%
22.5%
=======
=======
=======
=======
The principal activity of the associate is provision of automated clearing, delivery and settlement facilities in 
respect of transactions carried out at the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. 
In 2019, the Group acquired 61% of AKS Nominees Ltd (AKS) (Subsidiary as disclosed in note 16). AKS holds an 
18% shareholding in the ordinary shares of the CDSC in 2019 (2018 – 18%).
             Group
        Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
(b)
The movement in the balance is as follows:
At start of year 
127,581
111,374
127,581
111,374
Additional investment
137,340
-
-
-
Share of profit for the year (note 15 (e))
14,264
19,012
10,424
19,012
Share of other comprehensive income for the year
(note 15 (e))
1,193
(105)
663
(105)
Dividends received
(3,937)
(2,700)
(3,937)
(2,700)
____________
____________
____________
____________
At end of year
276,441
127,581
134,731
127,581
=========
=========
=========
=========
(c)
Summarised financial information in 
respect of the associate is set out below:
Total assets
684,208
637,943
684,208
637,943
Total liabilities 
(85,401)
(70,918)
(85,401)
(70,918)
____________
____________
____________
____________
Net assets
598,807
567,025
598,807
567,025
____________
____________
____________
____________
Group’s share of net assets of associate
242,516
127,581
134,731
127,581
=========
=========
=========
=========
Total revenue for the year
335,332
355,276
335,332
355,276
=========
=========
=========
=========
Total profit for the year
43,520    
82,183
43,520    
82,183
=========
=========
=========
=========

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
108
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
15	 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE (CONTINUED)
          Group
           Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
(d)
Reconciliation of Share of net assets
of associate to Investment in associate:
Share of net assets (note 15 (c))
242,516
127,581
134,731
127,581
Goodwill on acquisition of additional shares
 of AKS Nominees Limited
33,925
-
-
-
____________
____________ ______________
____________
Balance as per statement of financial position
276,441
127,581
134,731
127,581
=========
=========
==========
=========
(e)
Share of profit of the associate:
Company
Being the direct shareholding at 22.5% (2018 – 
22.5%)
Share of profit of associate 
10,424
19,012
10,424
19,012
Share of other comprehensive income 
663
(105)
663
(105)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
11,087
18,907
11,087
18,907
=========
=========
==========
=========
Group
Being the direct shareholding at 22.5% (2018: 22.5%) 
(as computed for Company above) and the indirect 
shareholding at 18% from the acquisition date (2018 
– Nil)
Indirect shareholding at 18% (2018 – Nil)
Share of profit of associate 
3,840
-
-
-
Share of other comprehensive income 
530
-
-
-
____________
____________ ______________
_____________
4,370
-
-
-
=========
=========
==========
=========
Total group share of profit and OCI at 40.5% 
(2018 – 22.5%)
Total share of profit of associate 
14,264
19,012
10,424
19,012
Total share of other comprehensive income 
1,193
(105)
663
(105)
____________
____________ ______________
_____________
15,457
18,907
11,087
18,907
=========
=========
==========
=========

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
109
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
16	 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES - COMPANY
Principal 
activity
Holding
2019 
Sh’000
2018
Sh’000
Investment in subsidiaries
Investment in NSE Clear Limited (note (a))
Clearing 
house
100%
20,000
20,000
Investment in AKS Nominees Ltd (note (b))
Investment
61%
77,000
-
_____________
_____________
97,000
20,000
_____________
_____________
Investment in structured entities (note  (c)):
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
Settlement 
guarantee 
fund
100,000
100,000
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
Investor 
protection 
fund
10,000
10,000
_____________
_____________
110,000
110,000
_____________ ______________
207,000
130,000
==========
==========
(a) Investment in subsidiary – NSE Clear Limited
NSE Clear Limited was incorporated as a limited liability company on 4 February 2014 under the Companies Act 
(Cap. 486) with a share capital of Kenya Shillings One Hundred Thousand (Sh 100,000) divided into One Hundred 
(100) ordinary shares of Kenya Shillings One Thousand (Sh 1,000) each. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. The subsidiary is domiciled in Kenya.
The principal objectives of the subsidiary are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to provide 
clearing and settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a securities 
exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative securities transactions and to carry out all activities that 
pertain to a clearing house.
The license to operate a Derivatives Exchange was granted to the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited on 19 
October 2015. The derivatives market was launched in July 2019.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
110
16	 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES - COMPANY (CONTINUED)
(b)
Investment in subsidiary – AKS Nominees Ltd
In 2019, the Group acquired 61% of AKS Nominees Ltd (AKS) for a consideration of Sh 77 million. The transaction 
resulted in a bargain purchase price of Sh 8,922,000 (2018: Nil) which was recognized in profit or loss.  AKS holds 
an 18% shareholding in the ordinary shares of the CDSC in 2019 (2018 – 18%).
The principal activity of the subsidiary is holding equity shares in CDSC in trust for its members who are 
authorised to operate as stockbrokers and investment banks in the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE).
The net assets acquired and bargain purchase computation is as below:
Acquisition of AKS Nominees Ltd
Sh’000
Assets acquired
Equity investment in CDSC
137,340
Sundry debtors
3,150
Cash and cash equivalents
617
Property and equipment
4
Liabilities assumed
Other liabilities
(512)
    
_____________
Net assets acquired
140,599
=========
Purchase consideration
77,000
Share of net assets acquired – 61% of net assets acquired
(85,922)
    
_____________
Gain on bargain purchase
(8,922)
=========
(c)	
Investment in structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust 
under the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 and 
the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) Derivatives Rules. The main purpose of the Settlement Guarantee Fund is 
to settle specified claims by derivatives members arising out of transactions in derivative securities.
The NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust 
under the Trustee Act (Cap167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015, the 
NSE Investor Protection Fund Rules and the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) Compensation Rules and 
Procedures. The main purpose for the Investor Protection Fund is to satisfy specified claims by the investing 
public arising out non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members or losses incurred by reason 
of the default of trading members.
(d)  Non-controlling interest (NCI)
The total NCI at 31 December 2019 is Shs 56,113 (2018: Nil) all of which relates to AKS Nominees Limited at 
39% shareholding.
The following table summarises the financial information as at 31 December 2019, relating to the Group’s 
company that has significant non-controlling interest.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
111
16	 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES - GROUP (CONTINUED)
     
Sh’000
(d)
Non-controlling interest (NCI) (Continued)
Total assets
140,645
Total liabilities
(721)
_____________
Net assets
139,924
=========
Revenue
40
=========
Profit after tax
(663)
Other comprehensive income
(12)
_____________
Total comprehensive income
(675)
=========
(e)
Reconciliation of NCI
Movement in the non-controlling interest is as follows:
At start of the year
-
On acquisition of subsidiary
54,677
NCI’s Share of profit 
1,230
Share of other comprehensive income of the associate
206
 _____________
56,113
=========
           Group
            Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
17
FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME- QUOTED 
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS 
At start of year
-
-
-
-
Additions in the year
72,900
-
72,900
-
    
Fair value loss through other comprehensive 
income
(23,020)
-
(23,020)
-
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
At end of year
49,880
-
49,880
-
=========
=========
=========
=========
Quoted ordinary shares at face value through other comprehensive income are classified as non-current 
assets. At the year end, these are valued at the closing market share price at the Dar-Es-Salaam stock 
exchange on the last day of trading of the year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
112
           Group
            Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
18
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES
 
(a) 
 At amortized cost
Treasury bonds maturing:
After three months to six months
79,863
-
79,863
-
After 1 to 10 years
-
92,901
-
92,901
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
79,863
92,901
79,863
92,901
Less: provision for expected credit losses
(315)
(1,258)
(315)
(1,258)
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
79,548
91,643
79,548
91,643
==========
==========
========== ==========
The weighted average effective interest rate on  
the treasury bonds held at amortised cost for the  
year ended 31 December 2019 was 8.6% (2018 10.2%).
(b) 
 At fair value through profit or loss
Treasury bonds held for trading
32,815
-
32,815
-
Less: Fair value losses
(515)
-
(515)
-
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
32,300
-
32,300
-
=========
=========
=========
=========
The weighted average effective interest rate on the treasury bonds at fair value through profit or loss for year 
ended 31 December 2019  was 12.1% (2018: Nil).
19
LONG-TERM RESTRICTED INVESTMENTS
Fixed deposit and interest capitalized held with the Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited and maturing 
within 180 days in the name of:
             Group
      Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
NSE Clear Limited
20,025
20,052
-
-
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
167,269
124,396
-
-
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
12,576
12,608
-
-
______________
______________
______________
______________
199,870
157,056
-
-
Less: provision for expected credit losses
(572)
(535)
-
-
______________
______________
______________
______________
199,298
156,521
-
-
==========
==========
==========
==========
The restricted investments relate to the seed capital contributions by the NSE on 19 August 2015 to the NSE 
Clear Limited, the NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection 
Fund (IPF) of Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million and Sh 10 million respectively towards their operations.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
113
20
DEFERRED INCOME TAX
Deferred income tax is calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method using a principal tax rate 
of 20% (2018: 20%) except for deferred tax on revaluation of buildings which is calculated using the capital gains 
tax rate of 5% (2018: 5%). The net deferred tax asset is attributable to the following items:
            Group
          Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Accelerated capital allowances 
(1,623)
241
(1,623)
241
Straight-lined rental income
(887)
(1,101)
(887)
(1,101)
Unrealized foreign exchange loss
20
22
20
22
Leave provision
592
728
592
728
Tax losses
2,814
1,816
-
-
Provision for expected credit losses
1,966
1,109
1,794
948
Deferred market access fees
1,667
5,000
1,667
5,000
Revaluation of investment property
(2,288)
(2,127)
(2,288)
(2,127)
Fair value loss on equity instruments at FVTOCI
4,604
-
4,604
-
_____________
____________
_____________
_____________
6,865
5,688
3,879
3,711
=========
=========
=========
=========
The movement in the deferred income tax asset is 
as follows:
At start of year
5,688
(3,496)
3,711
(4,804)
(Charge)/credit to profit or loss (note 11 (a))
(3,427)
2,706
(4,436)
2,190
IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 transition adjustment:
expected credit losses
-
6,478
-
6,325
Credit to other comprehensive income
4,604
-
4,604
-
_____________
_____________ _____________
_____________
At end of year
6,865
5,688
3,879
3,711
=========
=========
=========
=========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
114
               Group
                Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
21
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
(a)
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
Trade receivables
43,332
31,729
43,332
31,729
Prepayments and deposits
4,751
32,177
4,751
32,177
Other receivables
24,366
15,799
24,366
15,799
Due from trading members
189
2,400
-
-
Due from associate (note 30 (f))
1,399
-
1,399
-
Clearing balances
71
-
-
-
______________ ______________
______________ ______________
74,108
82,105
73,848
79,705
Less: Provision for expected credit losses (note (b))
(6,644)
(1,579)
(6,644)
(1,579)
______________ ______________
______________ ______________
67,464
80,526
67,204
78,126
==========
==========
==========
==========
(b)
PROVISION FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
Movements in the provisions for expected credit 
losses were as follows:
At start of year
1,579
154,056
1,579
154,056
IFRS 9 transition adjustment: additional credit losses
-
3271
-
3271
Written off in the year
-
(154,178)
-
(154,178)
Charge/ (write back) in the year
5,065
(1,570)
5,065
(1,570)
______________ ______________
______________ ______________
At end of year (note (a))
6,644
1,579
6,644
1,579
==========
==========
=========
=========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
115
            Group
           Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
22
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-
TERM RESTRICTED CASH & INVESTMENTS
Call deposits
29,927
102,119
29,927
102, 119
Fixed deposits
689,185
900,680
689,185
900,680
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
Total short-term deposits (note 23)
719,112
1,002,799
719,112
1,002,799
Bank and cash balances
65,106
30,399
61,731
30,379
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
Total bank and cash balances and deposits 
784,218
1,033,198
780,843
1,033,178
Less provision for expected credit losses on:
Call and fixed deposits (note 23)
(1,098)
(1,693)
(1,098)
(1,693)
Bank and cash balances
(401)
(206)
(401)
(206)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
782,719
1,031,299
779,344
1,031,279
==========
==========
========== ==========
Split into:
Short-term restricted investments (note 35)
289,910
338,202
289,910
338,202
Cash and cash equivalents
343,073
228,564
339,698
228,544
Fixed deposits – maturity of three months to six
months (note 23)
149,736
464,533
149,736
464,533
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
782,719
1,031,299
779,344
1,031,279
==========
==========
========== ==========
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of 
cash flows is comprised of:
Cash and cash equivalents in the financial position
343,073
228,564
339,698
228,544
Add back: Provision for expected credit losses on
cash and cash equivalents
744
744
742
742
Cash equivalents acquired from subsidiary AKS
Nominees Limited
(617)
-
-
-
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
343,200
229,308
340,440
229,286
==========
==========
========== ==========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
116
23
SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
            Group
           Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Maturing within three months:
Fixed deposits
539,087
434,862
539,087
434,862
Call deposits
29,927
102,119
29,927
102,119
______________ ______________
_____________
____________
569,014
536,981
569,014
536,981
Less: Provision for expected credit losses
(736)
(408)
(736)
(408)
______________ ______________
_____________
____________
568,278
536,573
568,278
536,573
========== ==========
=========
=========
Maturing after three months to six months:
Fixed deposits
150,098
465,818
150,098
465,818
Less: provision for expected credit losses
(362)
(1,285)
(362)
(1,285)
______________ ______________
_____________
____________
149,736
464,533
149,736 
464,533
========== ==========
=========
=========
Gross total - call and fixed deposits (note 22)
719,112
1,002,799
719,112
1,002,799
Total provision for expected credit losses
(1,098)
(1,693)
(1,098)
(1,693)
_____________
______________
____________
____________
Net total - call and fixed deposits
718,014
1,001,106
718,014
1,001,106
========== ==========
=========
=========
The deposits are classified and measured at 
amortised cost.
The gross carrying deposits were held at the 
following institutions:
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
165,967
211,582
165,967
211,582
Equity Bank Kenya Limited
136,494
199,878
136,494
199,878
Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Limited
8,674
184,547
8,674
184,547
Kenya Commercial Bank Limited
177,341
42,007
177,341
42,007
Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited
54,645
184,931
54,645
184,931
NIC Bank Kenya PLC
175,991
179,854
175,991
179,854
______________ ______________
_____________
____________
719,112
1,002,799
719,112
1,002,799
========== ==========
=========
=========
The weighted average effective interest rate on the deposits as at 31 December 2019 was 8.2%. (2018: 9.1%).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
117
          Group
            Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
24
SHARE CAPITAL
Authorised share capital:
At start and end of year:
375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
==========
==========
=========
=========
Issued and fully paid up:
At start and end of year:
259,500,791 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each
1,038,003
1,038,003
1,038,003
1,038,003
==========
==========
==========
=========
25       SETTLEMENT GUARANTEE FUND - MEMBER’S CONTRIBUTIONS
             Group
            Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
  Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
11,750
-
-
-
  Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited
23,500
-
-
-
____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
35,250
-
-
-
=========
=========
=========
=========
The contributions were received in cash in 2019. These are refundable contributions made by clearing members 
to the Settlement Guarantee Fund to cover any claims arising from non-settlement of margins. Each clearing 
member’s contribution is currently at Shs 23.5 million. The balance of Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited 
contributions of Shs 11.75 million was provided through a bank guarantee of the same amount issued by KCB 
Bank Kenya Limited on 5th July 2019.
               Group
            Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
26
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
(a) 
Non-current portion
Tenant deposits
1,829
2,711
1,829
2,711
=========
========== ==========
==========
(b) 
Current portion
Accrued expenses
36,829
35,067
34,911
33,314
Trade payables
21,706
16,627
21,706
16,627
Other payables
9,230
10,681
9,230
10,681
Staff leave accrual
2,960
3,639
2,960
3,639
Amount payable to Capital Markets Authority
1,839
1,953
1,839
1,953
Annual listing fees received in advance
3,190
135
3,190
135
Tenant deposits
1,693
-
1,693
-
Amount payable to associate (note (30 (f))
-
767
-
767
Deferred market access fees
8,334
25,001
8,334
25,001
Clearing balances
65
-
-
-
  _____________
_____________
_____________   _____________
85,846
93,870
83,863
92,117
=========
=========
=========
==========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
118
27
DIVIDENDS PAYABLE
             Group
Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
The dividends payable represent the first and final 
dividend for the years ended 31 December 2018, 
2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 respectively 
not paid at year end. The movement in dividends 
payable during the year was as follows: -
At start of year
23,859
19,869
23,859
19,869
Declared amount for prior years
127,155
77,850
127,155
77,850
Paid during the year
(120,638)
(73,860)
(120,638)
(73,860)
Acquired from subsidiary
405
-
-
-
Dividends not paid reversed by AKS
95
-
-
-
  _____________
____________   _____________   _____________
At end of year
30,876
23,859
30,376
23,859
=========
=========
=========
=========
                Group
           Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
28
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before income tax
104,499
240,849
82,074
229,522
Adjustments for:
Depreciation (note 12)
27,758
20,703
27,758
20,703
Amortisation (note 14)
21,061
16,353
21,061
16,353
Share of results of associate (note 15 (b)) 
(14,264)
(19,012)
(10,424)
(19,012)
Interest income (note 9)
(89,109)
(116,341)
(73,641)
(100,977)
Gain on disposal of equipment 
(1,511)
(452)
(1,511)
(452)
Gain on revaluation of investment property (note 13)
(3,218)
(9,279)
(3,218)
(9,279)
Deficit on revaluation of building (note 12)
10,952
17,529
10,952
17,529
Gain on bargain purchase (note 16 (b))
(8,922)
-
-
-
Working capital changes:
 Decrease in trade and other receivables
13,062
10,949
10,922
10,949
Decrease/(increase) in short-term restricted cash 
and investments
48,292
(36,187)
48,292
(36,187)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables
(8,083)
1,930
(8,254)
1,969
Due from trading members
200
(2,400)
-
-
Movement in related party balances
-
               -
717
(3,401)
Due to NSE Investor Protection Fund
-
               -
200
-
   
____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
Cash generated from operations
100,717
124,642
104,928
127,717
       =========
       
=========
=========
=========
29
EARNINGS PER SHARE - BASIC AND DILUTED
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the net profit per year by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Net profit attributable to owners of the Group (Sh’000)
78,923
190,678
60,837
182,647
=========
=========
=========
=========
Number of shares at 31 December (in thousands)
259,501
259,501
259,501
259,501
=========
=========
=========
=========
Basic and diluted earnings per share – Sh
0.30
0.73
0.23
0.70
=========
=========
=========
=========
The basic earnings per share is the same as the diluted earnings per share as there were no potentially dilutive 
shares at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
119
30     RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Group and Company are related to various parties by virtue of common shareholding. The shareholders 
exercise significant influence over the operations of the exchange.
At 31 December 2019, the Group had 10 stockbrokers (2018:10) and 6 licensed investment banks (2018:6) who 
are shareholders.  The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
           Group
        Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
(a)   Directors’ emoluments
Non – executive
Directors fees and sitting allowances (including 
committees)
22,927
14,290
21,813
13,004
=========
========= =========
=========
Executive
26,108
23,719
26,108
23,719
=========
========= =========
=========
    Group and Company
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
(b)   Key management compensation
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits
77,539
73,603
Other long term benefits
4,728
6,459
_____________
_____________
82,267
80,062
=========
=========
(c)   Transactions with shareholders
The transactions carried out during the year with the brokers and investment banks who are related parties by 
virtue of shareholding are disclosed below:
The Group charges investors, through the brokers, a transaction levy of 0.12% (31 December 2018: 0.12%) of 
the value of equity securities traded at the Exchange. During the 12 months period ended 31 December 2019, 
the total turnover was Sh 140,943 million (31 December 2018: Sh 208,254 million) resulting in a transaction 
levy of Sh 169 million (31 December 2018: Sh 250 million). NSE also charges investors, through brokers, a 
transaction levy of 0.0035% (31 December 2018 – 0.0035%) of the value of fixed income securities traded at 
the Exchange. The turnover for fixed income securities for the 12 months period ended 31 December 2019 
was Sh 988,537 million (31 December 2018: Sh 778,000 million), resulting in transaction levy of Sh 35 million 
(31 December 2018: Sh 27 million).
(d)  Transactions with shareholders
             Group              
     Company
2019
2018
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Transaction levy on - equity securities
169,132
249,905
169,132
249,905
Transaction levy on  - fixed income securities
34,599
27,230
34,599
27,230
Broker back office subscriptions
15,840
17,280
15,840
17,280
Data fee
1,424
-
1,424
-
Training
945
920
945
920
NOMAD fee
225
150
225
150
Membership fee
1,200
1,300
1,200
1,300
Sponsorship fees
300
425
300
425
Ibuka
70
-
70
-
_____________
_____________
_____________
_____________
223,735
297,210
223,735
297,210
=========
=========
=========
=========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
120
30
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
e)
Transactions with companies related to directors
The Company’s memorandum and articles of association requires that trading participants and listed companies 
to have two representatives each on the Board.	 The transactions listed below were carried out during the period 
with companies who the aforementioned representatives are directors.  
  Group and Company
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
(i)   Stockbrokers and investment bank representatives
Transaction levy on - equity securities
16,165
19,786
Transaction levy on  - fixed income securities
4,804
3,424
Broker back office subscriptions
2,880
2,880
Training
         144   
360
NOMAD fees
        50    
50
Annual fee
200
200
Sponsorship fees
-
75
Ibuka fees
70
-
______________
______________
24,313
26,775
==========
==========
Allowances to broker company directors sitting on Committees but are not 
Group Directors    
129
86
==========
==========
(ii)  
Listed companies related to directors
Annual listing fees
4,500
4,000
Advertisement
52
-
Interest income on bank deposits
9,353
11,253
Purchase of data
112
309
Training
365
-
______________
______________
14,382
15,562
==========
==========
(f)   Transactions with associate 
During the period, transactions with CDSC Ltd were as follows:-
Expenses relating to:
Share registrar services and depository levies
3,027
3,024
Dividend processing	
969
785
Joint Board meetings
366
70
BAFM fees
-
105
______________
______________
4,362
3,984
==========
==========
Net amounts due from/(payable to) associate (note 21 (a)) and note 26 (b))
1,399
(767)
==========
==========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
121
30
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
(g)	
Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities
  Company
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
(i)
During the period, transactions with NSE Clear Limited were as follows:-
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Audit and tax fees
184
755
Secretarial services 
277
540
Board allowances
457
429
Income tax
664
665
Pilot testing – funding members
         -   
2,400
______________
______________
1,582
4,789
==========
==========
Amounts due from NSE Clear Limited
3,306
3,623
==========
==========
(ii)
During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Investor
Protection Fund (IPF) were as follows:-
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Trustee allowances 
486
429
Audit and tax fees
476
482
Secretarial fees
           46
131
Tax exemption application fees
-
116
_______________
_______________
1,008
1,158
===========
===========
IPF contributions received by NSE
200
-
===========
===========
Amounts (due to)/from IPF
(200)
114
===========
===========
(iii)
During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund 
(SGF) were as follows:-
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Income tax 
1,983
972
Trustee allowances 
486
429
Audit and tax fees
476
482
Secretarial fees
46
131
Tax exemption application fees
                -    
116
_______________
_______________
2,991   
         2,130
===========
===========
Amounts due from the NSE Derivatives SGF
-
286
===========
===========
(h)
Loans and advances to Executive Director 
At start of year
1,657
167
Advances made in the year
1,333
529
Loan made in the year
4,552
3,764
Repayments in the year
	
(4,579)
(2,803)
_______________
_______________
At end of year
2,963
1,657
===========
===========
Interest income earned on loan
269
184
===========
===========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
122
The balances are included in note 21 (a) under Other receivables. The repayment period for the loans and 
advances are one year and three months respectively. Interest on the loans was at 10% p.a (2018 – 10% p.a). All 
terms are as per company policy. 
31
OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY)
The Group and Company as a lessor:
Lease rental income earned during the year was Sh10 million (2018: Sh 13 million). At the end of the reporting 
period the Group and Company had existing contracts with tenants for the following minimum lease payments:
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Receivable within 1 year
9,941
11,175
Receivable after 1 year but within 5 years
19,217
12,340
______________
____________
29,158
23,515
==========
=========
Rental income receivable relates to the lease rent receivable on the leased areas on the investment property.
32
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS  (GROUP AND COMPANY)
Commitments at the end of the reporting period for which no provision had been made in these financial 
statements:
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Authorised but not yet contracted for
-
38,999
=========
=========
Authorised and contracted for
75,863
34,567
=========
=========
The capital commitments relate mainly to balances on ATS implementation, property improvements and other 
system infrastructure and support.
33	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The main business risks faced by the Group and the Company in respect of its principal non-derivative financial 
instruments are market risk including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The 
directors review and determine policies for managing these risks.
(a)	 Market risk
	The Group and the Company maintains a conservative policy regarding currency and interest rate risks and does 
not engage in speculation in the markets.  In addition, the Group and the Company do not speculate or trade in 
derivative financial instruments.
(i)	  Interest rate risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company’s investment in interest earning investments are both at amortised cost and fair value 
through profit or loss. These comprise of treasury bonds and bank deposits which are at fixed interest rates hence 
not exposed to interest rate risk.
The fixed deposits are short-term in nature and the fair value risk is considered minimal. Treasury bonds held at fair 
value through profit and loss carry a fair value risk as these are long term. 
At December 2019, if the interest rate had weakened/strengthened by 10% with all the variables held constant, the 
impact on pretax profit would have been Shs. 3,230,000 (2018: Nil) higher/lower.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
30     RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
123
33	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(a)	 Market risk (continued)
(ii)	 Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company undertake certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, exposures 
to exchange rate fluctuations arise. Exchange rate exposures are however minimal as these only relate to income 
from data and interest income.
At 31 December, the carrying amounts of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are as 
follows:
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Assets
Cash and bank balances
550
2,843
Trade receivables
1,203
705
Fixed deposit
8,652
20,429
______________
______________
10,405
23,977
Liabilities
Trade payables
(16,417)
(6,280)
Other payables
(515)
(12,739)
______________
______________
Net position
(6,527)
4,958
==========
==========
At 31 December 2019, if the Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US Dollar with all other 
variables held constant, the impact on pretax profit for the period would have been Sh 653,000 (2018: Sh 
496,000) higher/lower mainly as a result of translation of US dollar denominated balances.
(iii)	 Price risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company hold investments that would be subject to price risk.
At 31 December, the fair value of the investments that are subject to price risk are as follows:
2019
2018
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Quoted equity instrument
49,880
-
===========
==========
At 31 December 2019, if the price had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the market share price, the im-
pact on other comprehensive income through revaluation reserve would have been Sh. 3,990,000 (2018 – Nil).
(b)	    Credit risk (Group and Company)
	Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial 
loss Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party 
by failing to discharge an obligation. Credit risk mainly arises from financial assets, and is managed on a Group-
wide basis.
Credit risk on financial assets with banking institutions is managed by dealing with institutions with good credit 
ratings and placing limits on deposits that can be held one institution. 
Credit risk on trade receivables is managed by ensuring that credit is extended to customers with an established 
credit history. The credit history is determined by taking into account the financial position, past experience 
and other relevant factors. Credit is managed by setting a credit limit and credit period for each customer. The 
utilization of the credit limits and the credit period is monitored by management on a monthly basis.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
124
33	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b)	 Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued)
In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly, the Group compares the 
risk of default occurring on the financial asset as at the reporting date with the risk of default occurring on that 
financial asset as at the date of initial recognition. In doing so, the Group considers reasonable and supportable 
information that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition and that is available 
without undue cost or effort. There is a rebuttable assumption that the credit risk on a financial asset has 
increased significantly since initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due.
For this purpose, default is defined as having occurred if the debtor is in breach of contractual obligations, or 
if information is available internally or externally that suggests that the debtor is unlikely to be able to meet 
its obligations. However, there is a rebuttable assumption that that default does not occur later than when a 
financial asset is 90 days past due.
The Group and Company do not hold collateral or security to mitigate credit risk.
The amount that best represents the Group and Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at 
31 December 2019 and 2018 is made up as follows:
(i)	 The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet date was 
as follows:
12 – month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
credit losses    
Total
(a)
(b)
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2019
Government securities
112,678
-
-
112,678
Long-term restricted investments
199,870
-
-
199,870
Trade receivables
41,017
2,315
-
43,332
Other receivables
22,683
1,683
-
24,366
Short-term restricted cash and investments
289,910
-
-
289,910
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
494,308
-
-
494,308
______________
______________
______________
______________
Gross carrying amount
1,160,466
3,998
-
1,164,464
Loss allowance
(5,547)
(3,998)
-
(9,545)
______________
______________
______________
______________
Exposure to credit risk
1,154,919
-
-
1,154,919
==========
==========
==========
==========
At 31 December 2018
Government securities
92,901
-
-
92,901
Long-term restricted investments
157,056
-
   -
157,056
Trade receivables
30,936
793
-
31,729
Other receivables
15,113
686
-
15,799
Short-term restricted cash and investments
338,302
-
-
338,302
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
694,896
-
-
694,896
______________
______________
______________
______________
Gross carrying amount
1,329,204
1,479
-
1,330,683
Loss allowance
(3,792)
(1,479)
-
(5,271)
______________
______________
______________
______________
Exposure to credit risk
1,325,412
-
   -
1,325,412
==========
==========
==========
==========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
125
33	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b)	 Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued)
(i)	 The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet date was 
as follows (continued):
12 – month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
credit losses
Total
(a)
(b)
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Company
At 31 December 2019
Government securities
112,678
-
-
112,678
Trade receivables
41,017
2,315
-
43,332
Other receivables
22,683
1,683
-
24,366
Short-term restricted cash and investments
289,910
-
-
289,910
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
490,933
-
-
490,933
______________
______________
______________
______________
Gross carrying amount
957,221
3,998
-
961,219
Loss allowance
(4,975)
(3,998)
-
(8,973)
______________
______________
______________
______________
Exposure to credit risk
952,246
-
-
952,246
==========
==========
==========
==========
At 31 December 2018
Government securities
92,901
-
-
92,901
Trade receivables
30,936
793
-
31,729
Other receivables
15,113
686
-
15,799
Short-term restricted cash and investments
338,302
-
-
338,302
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
694,876
-
-
694,876
______________
______________
______________
______________
Gross carrying amount
1,172,128
1,479
-
1,173,607
Loss allowance
(3,257)
(1,479)
-
(4,736)
______________
______________
______________
______________
Exposure to credit risk
1,168,871
-
-
1,168,871
==========
==========
==========
==========
Financial assets for which the loss allowance has been measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit 
losses have been analysed above based on their credit risk ratings as follows:
•	
financial assets for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but that are not 
credit impaired
•	
financial assets that are credit impaired at the balance sheet date
The above represents the worst-case scenario of credit exposure for both years.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
126
33	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b)	 Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued)
(ii)	 The loss allowances at end of each year relate to the following
12-month 
expected  
losses
Lifetime expected
credit losses
Total
(a)
(b)
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2019
Government securities
830
-
-
830
Long-term restricted investments
572
-
-
572
Trade receivables
2,127
2,315
-
4,442
Other receivables
519
1,683
-
2,202
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
1499
-
-
1,499
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
Total
5,547
3,998
        - 
                
9,545
==========
==========
==========
==========
At 31 December 2018
Government securities
1,258
-
-
1,258
Long-term restricted investments
535
-
-
535
Trade receivables
35
793
-
828
Other receivables
65
686
-
751
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
1,899
-
-
1,899
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
Total
                  3,792 
1,479
        - 
                
5,271
==========
==========
==========
==========
Company
At 31 December 2019
Government securities
830
-
-
830
Trade receivables
2,127
2,315
-
4,442
Other receivables
519
1,683
-
2,202
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
1,499
-
-
1,499
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
Total
        
          4,975 
3,998
              - 
        8,973 
==========
==========
==========
==========
At 31 December 2018
Government securities
1,258
-
-
1,258
Trade receivables
35
793
-
828
Other receivables
65
686
-
751
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
1,899
-
-
1,899
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
Total
        
          3,257 
1,479
              - 
        4,736 
==========
==========
==========
==========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
127
33	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b)	 Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued)
iii)   The changes in the loss allowance during the year were as follows 
12-month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
credit losses
Total
(a)
(b)
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
Year ended 31 December 2019
At start of year
3,792
1,479
5,271
Additions in the year
2,258
2,016
-
4,274
______________
______________
______________
______________
At end of year
                
6,050 
3,495
              - 
9,545 
==========
==========
==========
==========
Year ended 31 December 2018
At start of year
-
-
154,056
154,056
IFRS 9 transition adjustment on expected credit
    losses
3,962
3,168
-
7,130
Changes arising from whether the loss allowance
    is measured at an amount equal to 12-month
   or lifetime expected credit losses
(170)
(1,567)
-
(1,737)
Changes due to financial assets written off during
    the year
-
(122)
(154,056)
(154,178)
______________
______________
______________
______________
At end of year
                
  3,792 
1,479
              - 
5,271 
==========
==========
==========
==========
Company
Year ended 31 December 2019
At start of year
3,257
1,479
-
4,736
Additions in the year
2,221
2,016
-
4,237
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
At end of year
                
  5,478 
3,495
              - 
8,973 
==========
==========
========== ==========
Year ended 31 December 2018
At start of year
-
-
154,056
154,056
IFRS 9 transition adjustment on expected credit
    losses
3,455
3,168
6,623
Changes arising from whether the loss allowance     
     is measured at an amount equal to 12-month
     or lifetime expected credit losses
(198)
(1,567)
-
(1,765)
Changes due to financial assets written off during    
    the year  
-
(122)
(154,056)
(154,178)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
At end of year
                
  3,257
1,479
              - 
4,736 
==========
==========
========== ==========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
128
33	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c)	 Liquidity risk - Group and Company
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash to meet the Group and Company’s obligations. 
The Group and Company manage this risk by maintaining adequate cash balances in the bank, banking facilities and 
by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. 
The table below analyses the Group and Company’s financial liabilities that will be settled on a net basis into relevant 
maturity grouping’s based on the remaining period at the reporting period to the contractual maturity date. The 
amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months 
equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Up to 1 year
1 – 5 years
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2019
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
1,829
1,829
Trade and other payables
85,846
-
85,846
Dividends payable
30,876
-
30,876
Trading members’ contributions
2,400
-
2,400
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
-
35,250
35,250
_____________
_____________
_____________
Total financial liabilities
119,122
37,079
156,201
==========
==========
==========
At 31 December 2018
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,711
2,711
Trade and other payables
93,870
-
93,870
Dividends payable
23,859
-
23,859
Trading members’ contributions
2,200
-
2,200
______________ ______________
_____________
Total financial liabilities
119,929
2,711
122,640
==========
==========
=========
Company
At 31 December 2019
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
1,829
1,829
Trade and other payables
83,863
-
83,863
Dividends payable
30,376
-
30,376
Due to NSE Investment Protection Fund
200
-
200
______________ ______________
_____________
Total financial liabilities
114,439
1,829
116,268
==========
==========
=========
At 31 December 2018
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,711
2,711
Trade and other payables
92,117
-
92,117
Dividends payable
23,859
-
23,859
______________ ______________
_____________
Total financial liabilities
115,976
2,711
118,687
==========
==========
=========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
129
33	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d)	 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
IFRS 7 specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether inputs used in the valuation techniques of 
financial instruments are observable or unobservable. Financial instruments are grouped into 3 levels based on 
the degree to which fair value data / input is observable.
i)	
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active trading markets 
for identical assets or liabilities. 
ii)	 Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as a price) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Input data for 
this category is sourced mainly from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The external valuation of buildings and 
investment property has been performed using a sales comparison approach.
iii)	 Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are carried at fair value by 
level of the fair value hierarchy. 
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group and Company
Level 1
Financial assets
Quoted equity instrument
49,880
-
==========
==========
Level 2
Financial assets
Government securities
32,300
-
==========
==========
There were no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 in the period and for level 3, there was no movement.
i)	
Level 1 – We have determined the fair value using quoted prices (unadjusted) from the Dar Es Salaam Stock 
Exchange.
ii)	 Level 2 – We have determined the fair value using the implied yield curve for the bond published by the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange.
The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried at fair value by level 
of the fair value hierarchy. 
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
Level 1
Financial assets
Government securities 
79,548
91,641
==========
==========
Level 2
Financial assets
Long-term restricted investments
199,298
156,521
Short-term restricted cash and investments
289,910
338,302
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
492,809
693,097
______________
______________
982,017
1,187,920
==========
==========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
130
33	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d)	 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (Continued)
The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried at fair value by 
level of the fair value hierarchy. 
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
Company
Level 1
Financial assets
Government securities 
79,548
91,641
==========
==========
Level 2
Financial assets
Short-term restricted cash and investments
289,910
338,302
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
489,434
693,077
______________
______________
779,344
1,031,379
==========
==========
There were no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 in the period and for level 3, there was no movement.
i)	
Level 1 – We have determined the fair value using quoted prices (unadjusted) from the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange.
ii)	
Level 2 – The fair value of these balances is equal to their amortised cost.
34	 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group and Company manage its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern 
while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
At 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018, the Group and Company did not have any borrowings.
2019
2018
Sh’000
Sh’000
35   MINIMUM LIQUID NET-WORTH REQUIREMENTS 
       (COMPANY)
       Estimated twelve months operating costs
579,820
676,404
==========
==========
       Required minimum liquid net-worth at one half of estimated 
       operating costs
                   
289,910
338,202
==========
==========
       Cash and cash equivalents and fixed deposits 
	
694,976
694,976
==========
==========
To ensure that there is no significant risk that liabilities may not be met as they fall due, the Capital Markets 
(Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 requires a futures exchange to maintain minimum liquid net-worth 
requirements equal to one half of the estimated gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve 
(12) month period or such other liquid net-worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. This has been met 
based on the above.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
131
36	 CONTINGENT LIABILITY
	
In July 2019 an employment claim against the NSE was filed by seven of its former employees whose 
employment 	contracts were terminated by way of redundancy in March 2019. The former employees have 
brought a claim against the NSE for damages of Kshs 40.83 million plus general damages to be assessed by the 
Court. The matter is still pending in Court and has not been provided for in this financial statements.
37	 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  
	
As at March 2020, the NSE had increased its shareholding in the subsidiary, AKS Nominees Limited (AKS) from 
61% to 88.8% by the purchase of an additional 1,381 shares at a total cost of Kshs 34,898,918. The NSE therefore 
holds 4,428 shares out of the 4,986 shares in AKS.
        
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
132
NOTICE is hereby given that the 66th Annual General Meeting of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) will be held 
by electronic communication, on Thursday 9th July 2020 at 11.00 a.m. to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	 To read the notice convening the meeting, table the proxies received and confirm the presence of a quorum.
2.	 To confirm and adopt the Minutes of the Annual General Meeting held on 30th May 2019.
3.	 To receive the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Report.
4.	 To receive, consider and, if thought fit, adopt the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31st December 2019 
together with the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
5.	 To approve a first and final dividend of Kshs 0.08 per ordinary share in respect of the Financial Year ended 31st 
December 2019 and to approve the closure of the Register of Members at the close of business on 9th July 2020 for 
one day for the purpose of determining the qualifying members entitled to dividends. 
6.	 To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board as detailed in the Annual Report for the Financial Year ended 31st 
December 2019.
7.	 Election of Directors:
a.	
In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Samuel Njuguna Kimani (an 
Independent Non-Executive Director) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election; 
b.	 In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Bob Karina (a Director 
representing the Trading Participants) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election; and
c.	
In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Michael Turner (a Director 
representing the Listed Companies) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
8.	 In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015, the following directors, being members 
of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, be appointed individually to continue to serve as members of 
the said Committee:
a.	
Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto;
b.	 Mrs. Nasim Devji;
c.	
Mr. Hosea Kimutai Kili; and
d.	 Ms. Isis Nyong’o Madison. 
9.	 To re-appoint Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) as the auditors of the Company in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 721 of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorize the Directors to fix the Auditors’ remuneration 
for the ensuing Financial Year in accordance with the provisions of Section 724 of the Companies Act, 2015.
ANY OTHER BUSINESS
10.	 To consider any other business of which due notice has been received.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
KURIA K. WAITHAKA
COMPANY SECRETARY & CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER
DATE: 17th June 2020
NOTICE OF THE 66TH ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
133
Notes:
1.	 In view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the related Public Health Regulations and directives passed by the 
Government of Kenya restricting public health gatherings, it is impractical, as provided in the Companies Act, 2015, 
for NSE to hold a physical Annual General Meeting (AGM) in the manner prescribed in its Articles of Association. 
Though shareholders will not be able to attend the AGM in person they will be able to register for, access information 
pertaining to the Integrated Report and Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of NSE for the year ending 31st 
December 2019, follow the meeting in the manner detailed below and vote electronically. Shareholders may ask 
questions in advance of the meeting as detailed in the instructions below.
2.	 Article 79 of the Company’s Articles of Association provides for the holding of, a general meeting by means of audio or 
audio and visual communication by which all Members constituting the quorum, can hear each other throughout the 
meeting, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2015.
3.	 On 29th April 2020, the High Court of Kenya in Miscellaneous Application No. E680 of 2020, issued an order as per 
Section 280(3) of the Companies Act, 2015, granting special dispensation to any company listed on the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange to convene and conduct a virtual general meeting subject to receipt of a No Objection from the 
Capital Markets Authority (CMA).
4.	 NSE has convened and is conducting this AGM following receipt of a No Objection from the CMA.
5.	 Shareholders wishing to participate in the meeting should register for the AGM by dialing *483*822# on their mobile 
telephone and follow the various prompts on the registration process.
6.	 To complete the registration process, shareholders will need to provide their National ID/Passport Numbers which 
were used to purchase their shares and/or their CDSC Account Number. For assistance, shareholders should dial the 
following helpline number: (+254) 709 170 000 from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m. from Monday to Friday. 
A 
Shareholder 
domiciled 
outside 
of 
Kenya 
can 
send 
an 
email 
to 
Image 
Registrars 
via 
NSEagm@image.co.ke or info@image.co.ke providing their details i.e. Name, Passport/ID no., CDS no. and Mobile 
telephone number requesting to be registered. Image Registrars shall register the shareholder and send them an 
email notification once registered.
7.	 Registration for the AGM opens on Thursday 18th June 2020 at 9.00 a.m. and will close on Monday 6th July 2020 at 
5.00 p.m. Shareholders will not be able to register after this time Monday 6th July 2020 at 5.00 p.m.
8.	 In accordance with the provisions of Section 670 of the Companies Act, 2015 and Article 159 of the Articles of 
Association of the Company, a copy of the Integrated Report and Audited Accounts may be viewed at the Company’s 
website www.nse.co.ke.
9.	 The following documents may also be viewed on the Company’s website, pursuant to Section 283(2)(c) of the 
Companies Act, 2015: (a) a copy of this Notice and the proxy form; (b) a copy of the High Court Order in Miscellaneous 
Application No. E680 of 2020; and (c) a copy of the No Objection issued by the CMA.
10.	 Shareholders wishing to raise any questions or clarifications regarding the AGM may do so by:
a.	
Sending their written questions by email to the Company’s email address info@nse.co.ke or Image Registrars’ 
address NSEagm@image.co.ke;
b.	 To the extent possible, physically delivering the written questions with a return physical address or email address 
to the Registered Office of the Company at The Exchange Building, 5th Floor, 55 Westlands Road, Nairobi or to 
Image Registrars Limited, Absa Towers (formerly Barclays Plaza), 5th Floor, Loita Street, Nairobi; or
c.	
Sending their written questions with a return physical address or email address by registered post to the Company’s 
address at P.O. Box 43633 - 00100, Nairobi, or to Image Registrars’ address - P.O. Box 9287 – 00100, Nairobi.
Shareholders must provide their full details (full name, ID/Passport Number/CDSC Account Number) when submitting 
their questions and clarifications.
All questions and clarifications must reach the Company on or before Monday 6th July 2020 at 
NOTICE OF THE 66TH ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING (Continued)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
134
5.00 p.m.
Following receipt of the questions and clarifications, the directors of the Company shall provide written responses to 
the questions received to the return physical address or e-mail address provided by the Shareholder no later than 
twelve (12) hours before the start of the general meeting. A full list of all questions received and the answers thereto 
will be published on the Company’s website no later than twelve (12) hours before the start of the AGM.
11.	 In accordance with Section 298(1) of the Companies Act, shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the AGM are 
entitled to appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the Company but if not the 
Chairman of the AGM, the appointed proxy will need access to a mobile telephone. A Proxy Form is available on the 
Company’s website via this link: www.nse.co.ke. Physical copies of the Proxy Form are also available at the following 
address: Image Registrars Limited, Absa Towers (formerly Barclays Plaza), 5th Floor, Loita Street, Nairobi. To be valid, a 
Proxy Form must be duly completed by the member and must be returned to Image Registrars on the above address 
or through their email address NSEagm@image.co.ke so as to arrive not later than forty eight (48) hours before 
the time fixed for the meeting, failing which, it will be invalid. In the case of a corporate body, the Proxy Form must 
be executed under its common seal or under the hand of duly authorised officer or an attorney of such corporation. 
Any person appointed as a proxy should submit his/her mobile telephone number to the Company no later than forty 
eight (48) hours before the time fixed for the meeting. Any proxy registration that is rejected will be communicated 
to the shareholder concerned no later than twenty four (24) hours after receipt to allow time to address any issues.
12.	 In accordance with the provisions of Article 96 of the Articles of Association of the Company, 
a 
person 
seeking 
election 
at 
the 
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
should 
deliver 
to 
the 
Company 
Secretary, 
through 
the 
Company’s 
physical, 
postal 
or 
email 
address 
info@nse.co.ke 
(copy 
to 
kwaithaka@nse.co.ke), at least seven (7) days prior to the day of the meeting, notice in writing signed by a shareholder 
duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person for election and notice in 
writing signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected as per the nomination papers which may 
be accessed on the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke. The person so nominated will be required to send a Consent 
in the format also available on the Company’s website.
13.	 The AGM will be streamed live via a link which shall be provided to all shareholders who will have registered to 
participate in the general meeting. Duly registered shareholders and proxies will receive a short message service (SMS/
USSD) prompt on their registered mobile numbers, twenty four (24) hours prior to the AGM acting as a reminder of the 
AGM. A second SMS/USSD prompt shall be sent one hour ahead of the AGM, reminding duly registered shareholders 
and proxies that the AGM will begin in an hours’ time and providing a link to the live stream.
14.	 Duly registered shareholders and proxies may follow the proceedings of the AGM using the live stream platform and 
may access the agenda. Duly registered shareholders and proxies may vote (when prompted by the chairman) via the 
USSD prompts.
15.	 Results of the AGM shall be published within twenty four (24) hours following conclusion of the AGM. 
16.	 For shareholders residing outside Kenya and wishing to participate in the AGM, the following procedure shall apply:
a.	
The 
Shareholder 
domiciled 
outside 
of 
Kenya 
will 
send 
an 
e-mail 
to 
Image 
Registrars 
via 
NSEagm@image.co.ke providing their details i.e. Name, Passport/ID no., and Mobile telephone number 
requesting to be registered.
b.	 Image Registrars shall register the shareholder and send them an email notification once registered.
c.	
A notification (email and SMS) shall be sent to them as well as all shareholders an hour before the AGM notifying 
them about the AGM. This notification will also include the link to stream the proceedings.
d.	 For voting, the shareholder will receive a verification Code via the Mobile telephone number provided.
e.	
The link shared to stream the meeting contains a voting tab. Once the shareholder selects to vote, he/she shall key 
in the code received via SMS and proceed to follow the prompts.
f.	
A shareholder may also ask questions via the Questions Tab.
17.	 Shareholders are encouraged to continuously monitor the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke for updates relating 
to the AGM due to the continuous evolving situation with COVID-19 and the Government directives being subject 
to change. We appreciate our shareholders’ indulgence as we steer through the developments in business brought 
about by the COVID-19 pandemic.
NOTICE OF THE 66TH ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING (Continued)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
135
PROXY FORM
I/We,_______________________________________________________________________of___________________________, 
being 
a 
shareholder/shareholders 
of 
the 
above-named 
Company, 
hereby 
appoint_______________________________________________________, of ________________________________________________
, or failing him ___________________________________________________________________of______________________________
as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company (AGM) to be held on 9th July 2020 and at any adjournment thereof.
As witness my/our hand this__________________________day of _____________________________________________2020
Signed___________________________________________________________________
Signed___________________________________________________________________
This Form is to be used in for or against any resolutions here below. Please mark as appropriate. Unless 
otherwise instructed, the proxy shall vote as he thinks fit.
Agenda Item
RESOLUTION
FOR
AGAINST
4.
To adopt the audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year 
ended 31 December 2019.
5.
To approve a first and final dividend of Kshs. 0.08 per share in 
respect of the Financial Year ended 31 December 2019.
6.
To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board in respect of the 
Financial Year ended 31 December 2019.
7 (a)
To re-elect Mr. Samuel Kimani (an Independent Non-Executive 
Director) in accordance with Articles 94 and 95.
7 (b)
To re-elect Mr.   Bob Karina (a Director representing the Trading 
Participants) in accordance with Articles 94and 95.
7 (c)
To re-elect Mr. Michael Turner (a Director representing the Listed 
Companies) in accordance with Articles 94 and 95.
8 (a)
To appoint Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto to continue serving as a member 
of Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee
8 (b)
To appoint Mrs. Nasim Devji to continue serving as a member of the 
Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee
8 (c)
To appoint Mr. Hosea Kimutai Kili to continue serving as a member of 
the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee
8 (d)
To appoint Ms. Isis Nyong’o Madison to continue serving as a 
member of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee
9.
To re-appoint Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers as the auditors for 
the Financial Year ending 31 December 2020 and to authorize the 
Directors to fix their remuneration.

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
136
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CONSENT FORM
Please complete in BLOCK CAPITALS
Full name of Proxy(ies):
        
Address: 
    
Date:
Signature: 
Please TICK ONE of the boxes below and return to Image Registrars Limited at P.O. Box 9287- 00100 Nairobi, 5th 
Floor, Absa Towers (formerly Barclays Plaza), Loita Street, Nairobi:
Approval of Registration
 
I/We approve to register to participate in the virtual AGM to be held on 9th July, 2020.
Consent for use of the Mobile Number provided
I/We would give my/our consent for the use of the mobile number provided for purposes of 
voting at the virtual AGM.
Notes:
1.	 If a member is unable to attend personally, this Proxy Form should be completed and returned (together with 
a power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is assigned or a notarized certified copy of such 
power or authority) to Image Registrars Limited, Barclays Plaza, 5th Floor, Loita Street and address P.O. Box 
9287-00100 Nairobi, or through their email address NSEagm@image.co.ke to arrive not later than 11.00 a.m. 
on 7th July, 2020 i.e. 48 hours before the meeting or any adjournment thereof. 
2.	 In case of a member being a corporate body, the Proxy Form must be under its common seal or under the 
hand of an officer or duly authorized attorney of such corporate body.
3.	 As a shareholder you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of your shareholder 
rights to attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at the meeting. A proxy need not to be a shareholder 
of the Company.
PROXY FORM (Continued)

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
137
CONSENT FORM FOR TRADING 
PARTICIPANT
CONSENT TO ACT AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  
REPRESENTING TRADING PARTICIPANTS
I___________________________________________________________________of P. O. Box____________________________________
being the person in respect of whom____________________________________________________________________________of 
P.O. Box ___________________________________________________________________has given notice of intention to propose 
me  as a candidate to be elected as a Non-Executive Director representing Trading Participants of the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange PLC at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9th July 2020, do hereby notify you of my 
willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this_____________ day of_____________________________2020.
__________________________________________________________________ 
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1.	 Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows:
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General 
Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the 
meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder 
duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such 
person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
2.	 The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC defines “Non-Executive Director”, “Executive 
Director” and Trading Participant” as follows:
“Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director;
“Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company 
pursuant to a contract of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day 
management of the Company;
“Trading Participant” means a licensee of the CMA with Rights to Trade at the Nairobi Securities Exchange;
3.	 To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke 
by 5.00 p.m. on Wednesday, 1st July 2020.
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
138
CONSENT FORM FOR LISTED 
COMPANIES
CONSENT TO ACT AS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  
REPRESENTING LISTED COMPANIES
I___________________________________________________________________of P. O. Box____________________________________
being the person in respect of whom____________________________________________________________________________of 
P.O. Box ___________________________________________________________________has given notice of intention to propose 
me  as a candidate to be elected as a Non-Executive Director representing listed companies of the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange PLC at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9th July 2020, do hereby notify you of my willingness 
to be so elected.
SIGNED this_____________ day of_____________________________2020.
___________________________________________________________________ 
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1.	 Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows:
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General 
Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the 
meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly 
qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person 
for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
2.	 The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC defines “Non-Executive Director”, “Executive 
Director” and Trading Participant” as follows:
“Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director;
“Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company 
pursuant to a contract of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day 
management of the Company;
“Trading Participant” means a licensee of the CMA with Rights to Trade at the Nairobi Securities Exchange;
3.	 To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke 
by 5.00 p.m. on Wednesday, 1st July 2020.
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
139
CONSENT FORM FOR INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
CONSENT TO ACT AS AN INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF A COMPANY
I___________________________________________________________________of P. O. Box____________________________________
being the person in respect of whom____________________________________________________________________________of 
P.O. Box ___________________________________________________________________has given notice of intention to propose 
me  as a candidate to be elected as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC 
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9th July 2020, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this_____________ day of______________________________2020.
___________________________________________________________________ 
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1.	 Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows:
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General 
Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the 
meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder 
duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such 
person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
2.	 To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke 
by 5.00 p.m. on Wednesday, 1st July 2020.
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
140
NOMINATION FORM FOR LISTED 
COMPANIES
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS A 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING LISTED COMPANIES
I/We ___________________________________________________________________of  P. O. Box_____________________________
being a shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote 
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 9th day of July 2020, do hereby give notice of my/our 
intention to propose ____________________________________________________________________________________________ of 
P.O. Box___________________________________________________________________ for election as a Non-Executive Director 
representing listed companies in the  Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this _________________________day of_______________________________2020.
SIGNED BY
DIRECTOR ___________________________________________________________________)
DIRECTOR/SECRETARY _______________________________________________________)	
	
PLEASE NOTE:
1.	 Article 93 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides that:
“… two Directors shall be elected by the members from among nominees of companies listed on the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange to represent the listed companies.”
“Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director;
“Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company 
pursuant to a contract of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day 
management of the Company; 
2.	 To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; Email: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke 
by 5.00 p.m. on Wednesday 1st July 2020.
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
141
NOMINATION FORM FOR TRADING 
PARTICIPANT
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS A 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING TRADING PARTICIPANTS
I/We ___________________________________________________________________of  P. O. Box________________________________a 
shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 9th day of July 2020, do hereby give notice of my/our 
intention to propose_____________________________________________________________________________________________ of 
P.O. Box___________________________________________________________________for election as a Non-Executive Director 
representing Trading Participants.
SIGNED this________________________ day of______________________________2020.
SIGNED BY
DIRECTOR ___________________________________________________________________)
DIRECTOR/SECRETARY _______________________________________________________)	
PLEASE NOTE:
1.	 The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC defines a “Trading Participant” as a licensee of 
the CMA with Rights to Trade at the Nairobi Securities Exchange.
2.	 Article 93 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc provides that: - 
“A maximum of two (2) Directors shall be elected by the members from among or to represent the Trading Partici-
pants”
3.	 To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; Email: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke 
by 5.00 p.m. Wednesday 1st July 2020.
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
142
NOMINATION FORM FOR INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS 
AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
I/We ___________________________________________________________________of  P.O. Box ________________________________
being a shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at 
the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on 9th July 2020, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to 
propose__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
of  P.O. Box___________________________________________________________________ for election as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this________________________ day of______________________________2020.
SIGNED BY
DIRECTOR ___________________________________________________________________)
DIRECTOR/SECRETARY _______________________________________________________)	
PLEASE NOTE:
1.	 The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC define an “Independent Non-Executive Director” 
as a Non-Executive Director who, for the last 5 years, has not been employed by the Company in an executive 
capacity; has not been a director of a Trading Participant; has not been employed by a Trading Participant 
in an executive capacity; has no personal service contract(s) with a Trading Participant; is not a director or a 
member of the senior management of a company listed on the Company’s securities exchange; and does not 
own or hold shares in a Trading Participant.
2.	 To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; Email: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke 
by 5.00 p.m. Wednesday 1st July 2020.
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
143
NOTES
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
144
NOTES
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2019
145
www.nse.co.ke

