NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE //
1
Discover Opportunity

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
2

OPPORTUNITY 
IS KNOCKING.
LET US HELP YOU 
GET SETTLED IN.
With our diverse range of products, The Nairobi 
Securities Exchange is here to help you discover 
opportunities. Come list with us and enjoy 
the success that comes with our years of 
experience.
Discover Opportunity
Contact us on:
+ 254 (020) 2831000 / 2831241
info@nse.co.ke
@NSE_PLC
@NSEPLC
@nse_plc

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
4
 
TABLE OF  
CONTENTS
Our Company
About this Report                                                                                                               5
NSE History 	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
            6 - 7
NSE Purpose & Values 	
	
	
	
	
	
                 8	
NSE Structure                                                                                                                     9
Corporate Information	
	
	
	
	
	
               10
2017 Highlights                 	
	
	
	
	
	
       11 - 14
Chairman’s Statement                                                                                              15 - 17
Chief Executive’s Statement                                                                                     18 - 20
Board of Directors                                                                                                     21- 25
Executive Commitee                                                                                                        26
Corporate Governance Statement                                        	
                      27 - 37
Enterprise Risk Management Framework                                                               38 - 40
Business Review
NSE Stakeholders                                                                                                              42
Sustainability Review                                                                                                43 - 47
Value Creation Process                                                                                                     48
Material Issues                                                                                                           49 - 50
NSE Strategy 
Financial Performance
Five Year Financial Review                                                                                                53 
Financial Statement Review
Director’s Report                                                                                                        55 - 56
Director’s Remuneration Report                                                                               57 - 60  
Statement of Director’s Responsibilities                                                                           61
Independent Auditor’s Report                                                                                   62 - 64
Statement of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income                                  65                                                                                        
Statement of Financial Position                                                                                       66
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity                                                                67
Company Statement of Changes in Equity                                                                      68 
Statement of Cash Flows                                                                                                  69
Notes to the Financial Statements                                                                          70 -104
Shareholder Information
Notice of the Annual General Meeting                                                                             
Proxy Form                                                                                                                      
Nomination & Consent Forms                                                                                                                             
52

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  //
5
We are proud to present to you our first Integrated Report for the period 1 January 2017 
to 31 December 2017. The Integrated Report is an instrument designed to illustrate the 
creation of corporate value in its various aspects and to highlight the use of different 
forms of capital and their related outcomes. It covers strategy, governance, performance 
and prospects in the context of our local, regional and global environments.
Purpose
The aim of our Integrated Report is to enable our stakeholders, including investors; 
to make a highly informed assessment of The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) and 
its forecasts. NSE has made a deliberate choice to communicate its company’s story 
through an Integrated Report; as we appreciate that traditional standards for measuring 
value and financial growth no longer provide a comprehensive picture of the company. 
We believe that entrenching such practices into our business will help to drive improved 
governance practices through more inclusive identification and management of current 
and future opportunities and risks.
We use an integrated approach to reporting that examines our operational, financial 
and sustainability performance. We are always looking for ways of working with our 
stakeholders to create lasting value, while continuing our journey to deliver on our 
vision, “To be a leading securities exchange in Africa, with a global reach.”
Preparation & Presentation 
This Integrated Report has been prepared taking into consideration the International 
Integrated Reporting Council Framework. The NSE Board of Directors and Management 
have considered the fundamental concepts and guiding principles recommended in 
the Framework and have undertaken to apply these recommendations in the report. 
This report is also aligned with the provisions of the Kenya Companies Act  2015 and 
guidelines issued by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). The Group Annual Financial 
Statements have as usual been prepared in accordance with the International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS).
Assurance
The Group Annual Financial Statements were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC).
GEOFFREY O. ODUNDO
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
ABOUT THIS REPORT

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
6
 
NSE HISTORY
1920s – 1953: 
Dealing in shares commenced with trading taking place on a 
gentleman’s agreement.  London Stock Exchange (LSE) officials 
accepted to recognize the setting up of the Nairobi Stock Exchange 
as an overseas stock exchange in 1953.
1954 – 1962:   
The Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE) was registered under the 
Societies Act in 1954 as a voluntary association of stockbrokers, 
charged with the responsibility of developing the stock market. 
Business was transacted by telephone and prices determined 
through negotiation.
1963 – 1970:   
The Government adopted a new policy with the primary goal of 
transferring economic and social control to citizens.  By 1968, the 
number of listed public sector securities was 66 of which 45% 
were for Government of Kenya, 23% Government of Tanzania 
and 11% Government of Uganda. During this period, the NSE 
operated as a regional market in East Africa where a number of the 
listed industrial shares and public sector securities included issues 
by the Governments of Tanzania and Uganda (the East African 
Community).
 
1988:  
The first privatization through the Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE), 
took place with the successful sale of a 20% Government stake in 
Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB). 
1991: 
NSE was registered as a private company limited by shares. Share 
trading moved from being conducted over a cup of tea (at the 
Exchange Bar) to the trading floor based open outcry system, 
located at IPS Building, Kimathi Street, Nairobi.
1993: 
The African Stock Exchanges was established with NSE as a founder 
member and secretariat.
1994:
The NSE moves its offices and trading floor from the IPS Building 
to Nation Centre.
1996: 
Privatization of Kenya Airways where more than 110,000 investors 
acquired a stake in the airline and the Government of Kenya 
reduced its stake from 74% to 26%. 
The NSE 20 Share Index; a price weight index calculated as a mean 
of the top 20 best performing counters is incorporated.
1975:
When the EAC finally collapsed in 1975, the Government of 
Uganda compulsorily nationalized companies which were either 
quoted or subsidiaries of listed companies.
2004:
Following the successful signing of an MOU between the Dar-es-
Salaam Stock Exchange, the Uganda Securities Exchange and the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange, the East African Securities Exchanges 
Association was formed.
2006:
The NSE implemented live trading on its own Automated Trading 
Systems (ATS), trading equities. The ATS also had the capability 
of trading immobilized corporate bonds and treasury bonds. The 
Exchange’s trading hours were increased from two hours (10.00 
am – 12.00 pm) to three hours (10.00 am – 1.00 pm).
2007: 
The NSE implemented its Wide Area Network (WAN) platform. 
With the onset of remote trading, brokers and investment banks 
no longer required a physical presence on the trading floor since 
they would be able to trade through terminals in their offices 
linked to the NSE trading engine.
February 2008: 
The NSE announced the extension of trading hours at the bourse. 
Trading would commence from 9.00 a.m. and close at 3.00 
p.m. each working day. NSE introduced the NSE All-Share Index 
(NASI) to provide investors with a comprehensive measure of the 
performance of the stock market.
April 2008: 
The NSE launched the first edition of the NSE Investment Challenge 
to promote stock market investments among Kenyan youth.
June 2008: 
The immobilized shares of Safaricom Ltd. commenced trading 
on the NSE. The Safaricom IPO increased the number of shares 
listed on the bourse to over 55 billion shares, from the previous 
15 billion.
2009: 
The NSE marked the first day of automated trading in Government 
bonds through the Automated Trading System (ATS) and uploaded 
all Government bonds on the System.
July 2011:
The equity settlement cycle moved from the previous Trading
T+4 settlement cycle to the T+3 settlement cycle. The Nairobi 
Stock Exchange Limited changed its name to the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange Limited. The change of name was a reflection of 
the 2010 – 2014 strategic plan of the NSE to evolve into a full 
service securities exchange which supports trading, clearing and 
settlement of equities, debt, derivatives and other associated 
instruments.
November 2011:
The NSE together with FTSE International launched the FTSE NSE 
Kenya 15 and FTSE NSE Kenya 25 Indices.
2012:
UMEME Holdings Limited cross listed its 1.6 Billion shares on the 
Main Investment Market Segment (MIMS) of the NSE. It was the 
first inward cross listing of an East African company on the NSE 
since the incorporation of the East African Securities Exchanges 
Association (EASEA).
2013:
NSE moves from Nation Centre to its new building; The Exchange 
on Westlands Road.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  //
7
January 2013: 
The Growth Enterprises Market Segment (GEMS) was launched 
giving small and medium enterprises a great opportunity to access 
the capital markets.
February 2013:
Centum Investment Company became the first company in East 
Africa to list an equity linked note, when its Kshs. 4.19 Billion Note 
Issue commenced trading on NSE’s Fixed Income Securities Market 
Segment (FISMS).  
NSE was admitted as an associate member of the Association of 
Futures Market. 
July 2013:
Home Afrika, made history by being the first company to list by 
introduction on the Growth Enterprise Market Segment (GEMS).
September 2013:
The NSE, named the winner of the Most Innovative African Stock
Exchange at the 2013 Africa investor Index Series Awards.
April 2014:
The 60th Anniversary Celebrations of the NSE kicked off with 
the Launch of the new NSE Brand and official opening of its new 
residence the Exchange building. 
June 2014:
The NSE received formal approval from the Capital Markets 
Authority (CMA) to operate as a demutualized entity. The NSE also 
received formal approval from CMA to offer its shares to the public 
through an IPO and subsequently self-list its shares on the Main 
Investment Market Segment (MIMS) of the NSE.
July 2014:
The NSE officially launched its Initial Public Offering (IPO) seeking 
to raise Kshs.627 million by selling up to 66 million new shares at 
a price of Ksh 9.50 per share. 
September 2014:
The NSE listed its 194,625,000 issued and fully paid up shares on 
the Main Investment Market Segment (MIMS) under a new sector - 
Investment Services of the bourse after a successful IPO. Following 
its self-listing the Exchange becomes the second African Exchange 
after the Johannesburg Stock Exchange to be listed.
The NSE launched a new system for trading corporate bonds and 
Government of Kenya Treasury Bonds allowing on-line trading of 
debt securities. The system was integrated with the settlement 
system at the Central Bank of Kenya. 
NSE hosts the African Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA) 
conference.
March 2015:
The NSE joined the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges 
(SSE), becoming the eighteenth member of the SSE worldwide and 
the fourth in Africa alongside the Egyptian Exchange, the Nigerian 
Stock Exchange and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
October 2015:
The NSE Board approved the launch of a new index dubbed NSE 
25 Share Index. The move was informed by the need to have a 
reference benchmark that can be used by capital markets players, 
in preparation for the launch of the NSE Derivatives Market.
The NSE became the fourth African bourse to launch the Real 
Estate Investment Trust (REITs) market and consequently listed the 
first REIT the Stanlib Fahari I-REIT.
2016:
NSE becomes full member of the Association of Futures Market 
(AFM) an upgrade from an associate membership attained in 
February 2013.
March 2016:
NSE signs up to the UN Women Empowerment Principles.
May 2016:
NSE was admitted to the UN Global Compact and signed the “Code 
of Ethics for Business in Kenya” in an effort to promote corporate 
sustainability practices in NSE and the capital markets at large.
July 2016:
 NSE received formal recognition as a Self-Regulatory Organization 
(SRO).
2017:
NSE changes its name from Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited to 
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC 
March 2017: 
The NSE becomes the first exchange in the East African region 
to introduce Exchange Traded Funds and subsequently listed the 
Barclays Newgold ETF.
June 2017: 
The NSE in association with other partners launch the world’s first 
government bond dubbed M-Akiba to be traded exclusively on a 
mobile phone. The first M-Akiba bond brought 300,000 new retail 
investors on to the bond market platform.
January 2018:
NSE becomes the first Exchange in East and Central Africa to be 
admitted as a full member of the World Federation of Exchanges 
(WFE).
NSE HISTORY (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
8
Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is the principal bourse in Kenya, offering 
an automated platform for the listing and trading of multiple securities.
NSE has consistently offered a well regulated, robust and world class 
platform for the trading of equities and bonds.
NSE is the market of choice for local and international investors looking to 
gain exposure to the East African capital markets.
The NSE is publicly traded and is the second self-listed exchange in Africa.
Our Vision
       To be a leading securities exchange in Africa, with a global reach
Our Mission
To provide a world class securities trading facility
Our Purpose
To help stimulate and support a vibrant and growing capital markets
 in Kenya 
   
Our Core Values
Ethics. Integrity. Confidentiality. Excellence. Innovation.
NSE PURPOSE & VALUES

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  //
9
 
NSE STRUCTURE
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
            Central Depository 
          & Settlement Corporation Limited 
           (22.5% owned)
NSE Clear Ltd (100% owned)
        Guarantee Fund (SGF)
NSE Settlement
NSE Investor
 Protection Fund  (IPF)
*  The Board of Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and IPF
   who manage and administer the funds.
*

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
10
 
 
CORPORATE   
  INFORMATION
DIRECTORS	
	
	
	
Mr. Samuel Kimani	           Chairman
	
	
	
	
	
Mr. Bob Karina	
           Vice Chairman
	
	
	
	
	
Dr. Winnie Nyamute	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Ms. Sharon Maviala
	
	
	
	
	
Mr. Hosea K. Kili
	
	
	
	
	
Mr. Jimnah Mbaru
	
	
	
	
	
Ms. Nasim Devji
	
	
	
	
	
Mr. Michael Turner
	
	
	
	
	
Mr. James Mworia
	
	
	
	
	
Mr. Paul Vollant
	
	
	
	
	
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo    Chief Executive
SECRETARY	
	
	
	
John Maonga
	
	
	
	
	
Maonga Ndonye Associates
	
	
	
	
	
Certified Public Secretaries (Kenya)
	
	
	
	
	
P.O. Box 73248 - 00200
	
	
	
	
	
Nairobi, Kenya
REGISTERED OFFICE	
	
	
L.R. No 209/18851
	
	
	
	
	
The Exchange, 55 Westlands Road 
	
	
	
	
	
P.O. Box 43633 - 00100
	
	
	
	
	
Nairobi, Kenya
BANKERS	
	
	
	
Kenya Commercial Bank Limited                        
	
	
	
	
	
Moi Avenue Branch                                              
	
	
	
	
	
P.O. Box 30081 – 00100                                         	
	
	
	
	
	
Nairobi, Kenya                                                                    
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
	
	
	
	
	
Westlands Branch
	
	
	
	
	
P.O. Box 48231 – 00100
	
	
	
	
	
Nairobi, Kenya
AUDITOR	
	
	
	
PricewaterhouseCoopers
	
	
	
	
	
PwC Tower
	
	
	
	
	
Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road
	
	
	
	
	
P.O. Box 43963 - 00100
	
	
	
	
	
Nairobi, Kenya
LEGAL ADVISERS	 	
	
	
Hamilton Harrison & Mathews	
	
	
	
	
	
Delta Office Suites, 1st floor	
	
	
	
	
	
Block A, Off Waiyaki Way	
                                                     	
	
P.O. Box 30333 - 00100 GPO	
                                                       	
	
Nairobi, Kenya	
	
	
                                                        	
	
Mboya Wangong’u & Waiyaki Advocates
                                                         	
	
Lex Chambers
                                                         	
	
Maji Mazuri Road, Off James Gichuru Road, Lavington
                                                         	
	
P.O. Box 74041 – 00200
                                                         	
	
Nairobi, Kenya
	
	
	
	
	
Walker Kontos Advocates
	
	
	
	
	
Hakika House
	
	
	
	
	
Bishops Road
	
	
	
	
	
P.O. Box 60680 – 00200
	
	
	
	
	
Nairobi, Kenya

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 11
1.	 LAUNCH OF THE NSE - KENYA INSTITUTE OF 
MANAGEMENT BOARD DIVERSITY REPORT
EABL Chairman Charles Muchene, CMA Chief Executive, Paul Muthaura, 
New Faces New Voices Kenya Director, Andia Chakava and Kenya Institute 
of Management, Executive Director, Muriithi Ndegwa during the launch of 
the Board Diversity report. 
New Faces New Voices Kenya Director, Andia Chakava and Nairobi 
Securities Exchange Chief Executive, Geoffrey Odundo pose for a photo 
with the HR - Business Partner - Uchumi Supermarket ,Elizabeth Oyombe, 
after the company was recognized as one of the most improved companies 
in Board Diversity.
The NSE in association with the Kenya Institute of Management 
(KIM) and New Faces New Voices (NFNV) launched a Board 
Leadership and Diversity report on July 18, 2017. 
The report which sampled 52 listed companies in Kenya is in line 
with the NSE’s leadership and Dialogue series; an NSE initiative 
aimed at promoting diversity among Boards of listed companies by 
leading conversation on how to enhance various aspects diversity 
such as age, professional mix, and gender.
The report indicated that women representation in Boardrooms 
of listed companies stood at 21% in 2017, up from 14% in 2012. 
The report also found the average age of Kenyan board members 
stands at 55.8 years with 52.5% being between 45 and 49 years 
old with the country scoring better than the global average of 60.6 
years. 
The report also revealed that over 48% of Board members have an 
undergraduate level of education with 54% of women on boards 
holding a master’s degree and above compared to 43% of men 
who hold a masters degree and above.
The launch of the report culminated with recognizing and awarding 
companies that exhibited exceptional leadership in Board diversity. 
2.	 RING THE BELL FOR GENDER EQUALITY
(From Left) NSE Chief Executive (CE) Geoffrey Odundo, KAM Chair Flora 
Mutai, UN-Women’s Banu Khan and CMA (CE) Paul Muthaura at a panel 
discussion during the Ring the Bell for Gender Equality Ceremony
In celebration of 2017 International Women’s Day, the NSE 
joined over 40 stock Exchanges around the globe to Ring the 
Bell for Gender Equality on March 8, 2017,with the aim of 
raising awareness of the importance of gender equality amongst 
businesses for sustainable development.
The ceremony which was preceded by a full day training on 
corporate governance for female executives is aimed at highlighting 
the business case for gender equality while encouraging the 
implementation of Women Empowerment Principles (WEPS).
As a member of the United Nation’s Sustainable Stock Exchanges, 
the NSE is committed to realizing the UN Sustainable Development 
Goal (SDG) five of achieving gender equality by empowering all 
women and girls. 
The annual event was held in partnership with UN - Global Compact 
Kenya, UN Women and the International Finance Corporation.
 
2017 HIGHLIGHTS

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
12
1.	 LAUNCH OF KENYA’S GREEN BOND  
PROGRAMME
FSD Africa Director Mark Napier, Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) CEO, Habil 
Olaka and  Nairobi  Securities  Exchange CE,  Geoffrey Odundo pose for a photo 
after signing an MOU during the Launch of the Kenya Green Bond Programme
The Nairobi Securities Exchange, Kenya Bankers Association 
(KBA), Climate Bonds Initiative and Financial Sector Deeping (FSD) 
Africa, in association with the Dutch Development Bank (FMO) and 
International Finance Corporation (IFC) launched the Kenya Green 
Bond Programme on March 31, 2017. 
Green Bonds are bonds whose proceeds are allocated exclusively 
to projects with environmental benefits mostly related to climate 
change mitigation. The programme aims to help build the Kenyan 
green bond market, by listing issues that promote environmental 
protection in energy, agriculture, waste management, water, 
transport and urban planning for green sustainable economy to 
take place.
The NSE is committed to developing a vibrant domestic green 
market that will offer investors access to asset classes that balance 
financial returns with environmental benefits while enabling them 
hedge against climate risk policy. 
The green market will provide issuers with additional source of 
financing; improve investor diversification whilst enhancing issuer 
reputation.
The launch of the Kenya Green Bond Programme comes at a 
time when green finance products have been introduced in 
several markets and seen tremendous growth. Global Green Bond 
issuance rose by 78% to $155.5 billion in 2017: This shows the 
great opportunity to not only raise long term capital for green 
projects in the country but to offer investors an opportunity to 
earn returns from climate aligned investment.
2.	 NSE LAUNCHES EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS  
Barclays Bank Kenya CEO Mr. Jeremy Awori, Principal Secretary National 
Treasury, Dr. Kamau Thugge and Nairobi Securities Exchange CE, 
Mr. Geoffrey Odundo ring the bell to mark the listing and commencement 
in trading of the Barclays NewGold ETF.
The Nairobi Securities Exchange became the 6th Exchange in 
Africa and first in the region to introduce Exchange Traded Funds 
(ETFs) to the market are listed investment products that track the 
performance of a basket of shares, Bonds or commodities.
The first ETF was listed by Barclays Bank, dubbed the Barclays 
NewGold ETF. The NewGold ETF will enable investors to invest in 
an instrument which tracks the price of a Gold Bullion. ETFs will 
enable investors diversify their investments as they can be able to 
hold hundreds of individual stocks and bonds, which helps spread 
out risk.
The NewGold ETF will further enhance liquidity in our market 
while providing investors with an opportunity to diversify their 
portfolios. 
3.	 NSE LISTING FORUMS
Participants follow proceedings of the NSE listing forum in Kisumu 
In an effort to increase listings in our market, NSE held listings 
forums in Mombasa and Kisumu in 2017. NSE listing forums aim 
at apprising key business people and industrialist in the regions on 
the available opportunities in the capital markets.
Participants were enlightened on available options of raising capital 
as well as benefits of listing their businesses on the Exchange.
2017 HIGHLIGHTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 13
4.	 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE SIGNS MEM-
ORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU) WITH 
QATAR STOCK EXCHANGE (QSE)
Nairobi Securities Exchange, CE Geoffrey Odundo and Qatar Stock Exchange 
CEO Rashid Ali Al Mansoori pose for a photo after signing the MoU 
The Nairobi Securities Exchange signed a Memorandum of 
Understanding (MoU) with the Qatar Stock Exchange on March 
13, 2017 . The MoU will enable the two exchanges to enhance 
cooperation in the areas of sharing knowledge and expertise in 
relation to the development of capital market infrastructure, 
products and services between the two exchanges.
5.	 LAUNCH OF M-AKIBA BOND
NSE Chairman, Samuel Kimani, Central Depository Settlement Corporation 
(CDSC) CE, Rose Mambo, CS National Treasury, Henry Rotich and Capital 
Markets Authority CE, Paul Muthaura ring the bell to mark commencent in 
trading of the  M-Akiba Bond. 
The NSE in partnership with the other stakeholders launched 
the world’s first mobile traded government bond - the M-Akiba 
Bond. M-Akiba is a Government of Kenya retail bond that seeks 
to enhance financial inclusion for economic development by 
enabling retail investors to invest in government bonds with a 
minimum of Kshs. 3,000.
M-Akiba Bond commenced with a Special Limited Offer (SLO) of 
Kshs.150 million which attracted 102,632 investors; successfully 
achieving the issue target two days before the set deadline. 
Subsequent to this, a main offer was issued which at the close had 
attracted a total of 303,534 investors.
Money raised from the issuance of M-Akiba shall be dedicated to 
infrastructural development projects, both new and ongoing.
6.	 NSE’S CHARITY TRADING DAY
Celebrated media personalities Amina Abdi(Left) and Sheilah Mwanyigha 
(Right) pause for a photo with stock broker Tito Namu at the Charity Trading 
Day.
Celebrated TV journalist Larry Madowo (left) shares a light moment with 
entrepreneur Darshan Chandaria at the Charity Trading Day.
The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) raised over Kshs. 10 million 
in cash and in kind in its third annual charity trading day held on 
November 10, 2017, bringing the NSE Charity Trading Day total 
amount over 3 years to Kshs. 23 million.
The Charity Trading Day is an annual event that brings together 
the capital markets fraternity and known personalities, to make 
calls to clients on behalf of brokers and encouraging them to make 
trades. The Charity Trading Day provides an opportunity for capital 
market players to come together and raise funds in support of 
various charitable causes in the country.
The 2017 beneficiaries included; The Borana Conservancy - a 
non-profit conservation organization dedicated to the sustainable 
conservation of critical habitat and wildlife; SOS Children’s Village 
&, Joy Children’s Home. 
2017  HIGHLIGHTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
14
9.  NSE INVESTMENT CHALLENGE
Information secretary, Ministry of Information, Communication and 
Technology, Ms. Judy Munyinyi-Mumo,awarding the overall winner of the 
2017 Investment Challenge Mr. Joseph Munyau.
The NSE hosted the 2017 NSE Investment Challenge from May 
to August 2017. The NSE Investment challenge is NSE’s flagship 
Corporate Social Responsibility initiative that the Exchange has 
been running for the past 10 years. The challenge has so far 
attracted over 9000 participants, enhancing financial literacy 
amongst our youth while inculcating a savings and investment 
culture.
The annual online competition is a simulation of the activities that 
happen around trading in stocks, Bonds, ETF’s and REIT’s listed on 
the NSE. It also aims at inculcating prudent financial management 
skills with the intention of molding a new crop of future investors.
It lays emphasis on the use of technology, information and 
research in making investment decisions to optimize returns. Each 
participant gets Ksh 3 million virtual startup capital to trade with 
using live data from NSE during the competition period. They are 
mentored & judged by selected stock brokers and investment 
advisors.
10. FINANCIAL REPORTING (FiRe)  AWARDS
Sameer Africa Limited team showcases their awards after being named the 
winners of the 2017 Financial Reporting Awards. 
The NSE in partnership with other stakeholders held the 16th 
Edition of the FiRe Awards on November 16 and 17, 2018.
The Financial Reporting (FiRe) Awards is a joint initiative of the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE), Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants (ICPAK) and the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) 
aimed at promoting financial reporting excellence, fostering 
sound corporate governance practices and enhancing corporate 
investment and environmental reporting. 
Participants are evaluated, ranked and given feedback on how to 
improve on topline corporate governance and financial reporting 
parameters shared. 
The NSE continues to promote corporate governance and 
improved financial reporting standards amongst listed entities 
through initiatives such as these.
11.  NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE (NSE) AND
          
(From Left) Nairobi Securities Vice Chairman, Bob Karina, Nasdaq Dubai 
Chief Executive, Hamed Ali, Nairobi Securities Exchange CE Geoffrey Odun-
do and NSE Chairman Samuel Kimani pause for a photo after signing an 
MoU. 
Nairobi 
Securities 
Exchange 
signed 
a 
Memorandum 
of 
Understanding (MoU) with Nasdaq Dubai on November 23,2017 
to facilitate the creation of a Sukuk Sector in Kenya. The MoU will 
enable the two exchanges collaborate on assisting on the issuance 
and listing of Sukuk by the Kenyan government, government-
related agencies and private businesses.
The MoU is also aimed at promoting the development of Islamic 
capital markets products and solutions in Kenya. Sukuk are 
financial instruments (equivalent to bonds) that are structured 
in such a way as to generate returns in compliance with Islamic 
religious laws. The strategic signing of the MoU comes at a time 
when Sharia compliant investments products have gained traction 
globally. 
The annual volume of Sukuk issuance reached USD 75 Billion, 
bringing the volume of unpaid Sukuks close to USD 320 billion. 
This indicates the great opportunity for potential issuers and 
investors in Kenya.
2017 HIGHLIGHTS (Continued)
NASDAQ DUBAI SIGN MOU TO SUPPORT 
CREATION OF SUKUK SECTOR IN KENYA

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 15
Dear Shareholders,
As I review the past year, I am pleased to report that the Company 
continued to register growth, despite various macro and micro - 
economic challenges witnessed in 2017. I am glad to note that 
the Company’s performance remained buoyant, achieving a net 
earnings growth of 20%. The overarching objective of the Board 
and Management is to ensure the company remains focused to 
delivering value to you, the shareholders.
_______________________________________________________
As I appraise you on the developments of the company, we 
must first appreciate the business environment we operate in to 
contextualize the company’s performance for the period under 
review.
Global Economic Review 
Global economic activity continues to strengthen with Global 
output estimated to have grown by 3.7% in 2017, which is 
0.1% faster than projected in the fourth quarter of 2017 and 0.5% 
higher than in 2016. The pickup in growth has been broad based, 
with notable upside surprises in Europe and Asia. 
Global growth forecasts for 2018 and 2019 have been revised 
upwards by 0.2% to 3.9%. The revision reflects increased global 
growth momentum and the expected impact of the recently 
approved U.S. tax policy changes.
Africa’s Economic Review
African economies have been resilient and are gaining momentum. 
Real output growth is estimated to have increased by 3.6% in 
2017 and is expected to accelerate to 4.1% in 2018 and 2019, 
largely supported by good macroeconomic policies, progress in 
structural reforms and functional policy frameworks.
Overall, the recovery in growth has been faster than envisaged 
emphasizing Africa’s resilience. The recovery in growth could 
mark a turning point in commodity exporting countries, which 
experienced a prolonged decline in export prices resulting in low 
export revenues and intensified macroeconomic imbalances.
Going forward, economic diversification will be fundamental to 
solving the continent’s challenges especially in the context of a 
perplexing demographic structure, increased global competition 
and infrastructure challenges.
Kenya’s Economic Review
Africa must re-examine itself as it prepares for the 4th industrial 
revolution. Kenya’s GDP growth slowed in 2017 due to a resurgence 
of; drought, weak credit growth, political environment  concerns 
and rising oil prices.
Overall inflation declined to 7.5% in the third quarter of 2017, 
from 10.8% in the second quarter of 2017, on account of a 
decline in food inflation largely driven by lower cost of essential 
commodities following improved weather conditions and 
government interventions.
Monthly flows of credit to private sector showed recovery in the 
third quarter of 2017. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) 
retained the Central Bank Rate (CBR) at 10% in the months July 
and September 2017 anchored on easing demand pressures and 
inflation expectations.
 
THE CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
Global economic activity continues 
to firm up with Global output 
estimated to have grown by 
3.7% 
Africa’s real output growth is 
estimated to have increased by 
3.6% 
2017
2017

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
16
The Lending, Savings and 91 day Treasury bill interest rates 
remained relatively stable during the third quarter of 2017 
averaging 13.6%, 6.9% and 8% respectively, with Treasury Bill 
rates tending to decline. The economy recorded subdued growth 
of 4.4% in the third quarter of the year, largely on account of 
heightened election activity.
The foreign exchange market has remained stable largely on 
account of resilient inflows from diaspora remittances, tourism 
and horticulture exports. The Kenya shilling strengthened against 
the world’s majors, exchanging at Kshs 103.23 to the Dollar,
Kshs. 123.28 to the Euro and Kshs. 138.75 to the Sterling Pound at 
the close of the year. 
The Kenya Ease of Doing Business Index rose from 58.3% in 2016 
to 62.56% in 2017, reflecting a positive change of 4.26%.
The capital markets recorded gains across leading market 
indicators during the year with the NSE 20 and NSE All Share Index 
recording gains of 16.5% and 28.39% respectively by close of the 
year.
Financial Performance
While appreciating the multifaceted local, regional and global 
environment that we operated under, we are pleased with the 
Group’s overall financial performance. Total income increased by 
6% from Kshs. 717.2 million in 2016 to Kshs. 757 million in 2017. 
Equity trading volumes, which contribute 54% to the Group’s 
total revenue, increased by 22% from Kshs. 5.8 billion in 2016 to 
Kshs. 7.1 billion in 2017. Profit after tax increased by 19% from 
Kshs.183.8 million in 2016 to Kshs. 218.8 million in 2017 mainly 
due to the higher equity turnover. 
A detailed account of the Group’s operating and financial 
performance in 2017 is set out in the Chief Executive’s Report.
Despite the challenging economic environment, the Company 
continued its strategic focus of delivering value to all our 
stakeholders through provision of innovative solutions, strong 
trading infrastructure and high level visibility.
Strategic Partnerships
Strategic Partnerships, beyond the regular interaction with our 
shareholders and investors, is critical to our existence. In 2017 
the Company purposed to enhance its value proposition through 
partnerships and in line with Sustainable Development Goal on 
implementation of sustainability through global partnership.
The NSE and Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE), signed a Memorandum 
of Understanding (MoU) to enhance co-operation between the 
two Exchanges. The MoU is geared towards cooperation in the 
areas of exchange of information, knowledge and expertise 
in relation to the development of capital markets, market 
infrastructure, products and services. The MoU’s objectives also 
include supporting, promoting and facilitating investments in each 
other’s market.
We also signed an MOU with Nasdaq Dubai to facilitate the 
development of a Sukuk Sector in Kenya. A Sukuk is an Islamic 
financial certificate, an equivalent to a bond, structured to 
generate returns to investors in compliance with Sharia - Islamic 
Religious Laws. The MoU will pave way for the two exchanges to 
collaborate on supporting the issuance and listing of Sukuks by the 
Kenya Government, Government agencies and private businesses. 
The company in partnership with the Kenya Bankers Association 
(KBA), the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), Financial Sector 
Deepening Africa (FSD) Africa in conjunction with the FMO – Dutch 
Development Bank and the International Finance Corporation 
(IFC) launched the Kenya Green Bond Programme in 2017. The 
Exchange is committed to developing a vibrant Green market 
in the region, with the aim of supporting interventions that will 
enable the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. 
Through the NSE, issuers and investors will have a medium that 
will facilitate the issuance and investment in Green Bonds. 
Kenya made history by becoming the first country in the world 
to offer a Government bond traded exclusively through a mobile 
handset. The bond named M-Akiba (mobile savings) is a retail 
infrastructure bond issued by the Government of Kenya that seeks 
to enhance financial inclusion for economic development. It is a 
product in partnership with the Government of Kenya, the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange and the Central Depository and Settlement 
Corporation (CDSC). 
The NSE in association with the Kenya Institute of Management 
(KIM) and New Faces New Voices published a Board Leadership and 
Diversity Report. The report which sampled 52 listed companies in 
Kenya gave critical insights on the state of diversity among boards 
of listed companies. The research focused on age, gender and 
professional background and gives key recommendations on ways 
of improving diversity among our boards.
We shall continue to seek out corporate partnership that helps us 
deliver on our strategic agenda.
Kenya’s GDP growth slowed in 2017 
due to a resurgence of; drought, 
weak credit growth, security 
concerns and a rise in oil prices.  
2017
2017
THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (Continued)
Total Income increased by 6% from 
Kshs. 717.2 million in 2016 to 
Kshs. 757 million in 2017. 
6% 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 17
Dividend
In line with our progressive dividend policy and improved financial 
performance, the Board of Directors is pleased to propose a 
dividend of Kshs. 0.30 per ordinary share, representing an increase 
of 11% compared to the dividend of Kshs 0.27 per ordinary share 
declared in 2016.
Future Outlook
Kenya’s GDP is projected to grow to 5.8% in 2018 and 6.1% 
in 2019 respectively on the back of improved tourism, ongoing 
investment in infrastructure projects, expected resolution of 
growth in credit and the strengthening of the global economy. We 
believe this will be a good baseline for our business growth.
The NSE will continue to diversify revenue streams through 
introduction of new product offerings such as Derivatives, Islamic 
Finance Products and Green Bonds. 
The Exchange will also continue to promote some of its product 
offerings which include the Growth Enterprise Market Segment 
(GEMs) listings, the Real Estate Investment Trust (REITs), the M-Akiba 
bond and Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs). We will also continue in 
our pursuit of enhancing mechanisms aimed at deepening liquidity 
of the market through supporting introduction of the Securities 
Lending and Borrowing framework.
In the near term, our focus will be on cost and our operational 
efficiency. We will continue to set new heights for ourselves in the 
areas of governance processes, organizational effectiveness and 
strategy execution.
Appreciation
Our successes in 2017 would not have been possible without the 
strategic guidance of the Board. I want to take this opportunity to 
express my appreciation to my colleagues on the Board for your 
unwavering support accorded to me and the company during the 
year.
Our continued ability to meet our strategic goals and commitments 
depends essentially on our people. I extend my sincere gratitude 
to the staff of the NSE for their dedication and hard work. We will 
continue to strengthen the performance culture at NSE to make us 
an attractive employer.
I would also like to thank our shareholders for your trust and 
choosing to invest in us. We will continue to focus our business 
on delivering value to your investment. We are investing in 
innovation, and building new capabilities and platforms to secure 
our long-term prospects while at the same time delivering the 
sustainable, profitable growth you expect from us.
I would also like to thank the Government of Kenya, for providing a 
conducive investment environment that has enabled our business 
to thrive. 
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I wish to thank our issuers, 
trading participants and domestic and international investors for 
supporting the market during the year and assure you of continued 
impeccable service in 2018.
SAMUEL KIMANI
CHAIRMAN
The Board of Directors is pleased 
to propose a dividend of Kshs. 0.30 
per ordinary share, representing an 
increase of 
11%
2017
Kenya’s GDP is projected to grow to
5.8% 
2018
THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
18
Trading Performance
During the year, the company registered overall good performance 
across the equity, bond and ETFs markets, a sign of our continued 
leadership among premier markets in Africa.
During the year, equity trading accounted for 54% of the Group’s 
revenue. Turnover increased by 17% from Kshs.147 billion in 2016 
to Ksh.171.6 billion in 2017. 
Foreign investor participation averaged 65% over the same period, 
a 1% increase from the 2016 average of 64%. During the same 
period, secondary trading activity in the Fixed Income Securities 
Market rose by 0.82% from Kshs. 432 billion in 2016 to
Kshs. 435 billion in 2017. 
The Exchange’s bench mark index, the NSE 20 recorded a gain of 
17% from 3,186 points at the close of December 2016 to close at 
3,712 points at the close of trading in December 2017. The  NSE 
All Share Index (NASI) rose 28% from 133 points in 2016 to close 
at 171 points in 2017 while Market capitalization surged by 31% 
from Kshs.1.9 trillion in 2016 to Kshs. 2.5 trillion in 2017. 
Group Performance
Positive sentiments permeated the market during the year and this 
led to a growth in revenues in 2017 compared to 2016.
We are pleased to report that our profit after tax grew by 19% 
mainly due to increased equity levies occasioned by improved 
equity trading turnover. This resulted in an increase in operating 
income by 10% from Kshs. 527 million to Kshs. 582 million while 
interest income increased by 4% from Kshs. 95 million to 
Kshs. 99 million due to prudent management of funds. Other 
income decreased by 10% from Kshs. 95 million to
Kshs. 76 million. Administrative expenses increased marginally 
by 3% from Kshs. 487 million to Kshs. 500 million owing to our 
effective cost management strategy resulting in an improvement 
in our cost income ratio from 68% in 2016 to 66% in 2017.
Total assets increased nominally by 5% from Kshs. 2,014 million in 
2016 to Kshs. 2,108 million in 2017.
Return on equity increased to 10.75% from  9.87% in 2016, while 
the return on assets increased to 10.26% compared to 9.14% in 
2016.
We are confident that the Group remains well positioned to 
continue to delivering superior returns to its shareholders.
 
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S  
STATEMENT
Dear Shareholders,
	
The year 2017 tested the resilience of the Kenyan people, its 
economy and businesses alike. The company recorded strong 
performance despite a politically charged year and a myriad of 
macro-economic challenges. The company introduced a number 
of new products and services demonstrating its commitment to 
the growth strategy and expectation of its shareholders.
_______________________________________________________
Operating income increased by 10% 
from Kshs. 527 million to Kshs. 582 
million.  
10% 
 
Total assets increased nominally by 
5% from Kshs. 2,014 million in 2016 
to Kshs. 2,108 million in 2017.
5% 
2017
2017

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 19
Delivering on the Group’s Strategy
As we strive to be a great Kenyan business, NSE is committed 
to creating value for our stakeholders and the communities we 
serve. We remain steadfast to delivering value to our shareholders 
through a very focused strategy which is broadly founded on three 
pillars: Revenue, Brand Reputation and People.
During the year we launched the Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)
market and listed the first ETF (the Barclays NewGold ETF). 
Globally, assets continue to flow into exchange traded funds which 
is an attractive investment channel for investors owing to their tax 
efficiency, liquidity, modest fees and ease of trading purchase and 
exit. The Exchange will continue to support the growth of the ETF 
market through our dedicated business development and public 
awareness campaign with the aim of  increasing the number of 
issuers and investors participation.
Mobile technology and the increase of mobile financial services 
in particular have generated considerable attention as a means 
of expanding financial inclusion in Kenya. The NSE in partnership 
with the National Treasury (and other stakeholders) launched 
M-Akiba - a Government infrastructure retail bond that is issued 
and traded via the mobile phone. Among the key features of the 
bond is the low entry level of Kshs.3,000 and the ability to buy and 
sell the bond real-time, at any time.We believe that M-Akiba will 
promote a savings and investment culture among our populace 
and enhance financial inclusion in the capital markets.
In line with our sustainable finance agenda, the NSE in partnership 
with other stakeholders launched Kenya’s Green Bond Programme. 
The programme is a partnership with the Kenya Bankers 
Association. The initiative is supported by the Central Bank of 
Kenya (CBK), Capital Markets Authority (CMA) and the National 
Treasury. Through the partnership, we aim to explore the potential 
of the Green Bond Market, list Green Bonds on the Exchange 
and build capacity of Investment Banks to support the growth of 
this asset class  in Kenya. We believe that this will bring a new 
pool of social impact investors and position Kenya as a leading 
financial hub.  In addition, it will enable the development of a 
community of Kenyan-based licensed verifiers and support efforts 
in building capacity locally to catalyze similar programmes across 
East Africa. Green bonds can mobilize resources from domestic 
and international capital markets for climate change adaptation, 
renewables and other environment-friendly projects.
Our People
Since our restructuring process in 2015, our slightly larger, yet more 
skilled workforce has ensured that NSE works more efficiently 
to improve productivity. The key to this is that employees are 
incentivized to deliver against clearly defined performance targets 
that directly support the achievement of business objectives. 
Our remuneration strategy is continuously evolving to attract and 
retain these skills, and our people development approach is to 
ensure that we build a robust internal skills pipeline that can supply 
the skills that the company needs, now and in the future. In 2017, 
we welcomed seven new employees, among them, an addition 
to our Executive Committee. We continue to hire personnel with 
good technical and leadership skills.
In 2017, we invested Kshs. 11.6 million in training and professional 
development for our people to help deepen skills and drive 
innovation. 
Future Outlook
In 2018 the Exchange shall continue to focus on overall delivery 
against the 2015 - 2019 strategy and in line with our purpose,‘To 
help stimulate and support a vibrant and growing capital market 
in Kenya.’ 
Product development remains a key strategic objective and our 
key focus this year will be to launch the Derivatives Market. 
This market will facilitate the trading of futures contracts across 
a variety of asset classes in the Kenyan market and act as an 
attractive hedging instrument for the various asset classes.
The Exchange shall also continue to pursue new listing 
opportunities as well as strengthen the trading of equities and 
fixed securities with a view of encouraging capital raising in the 
debt and equity market. We shall also conduct financial awareness 
and promotional campaigns for all our existing products.
Technology is very central to our business; this year we will 
commission our upgraded trading platform. The upgraded 
platform will facilitate the trading of new products and enhance 
surveillance. We will continue to offer technology driven solutions 
to maximize returns.
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (Continued)
Global economic activity continues 
to firm up with Global output 
estimated to have grown by
Africa’s real output growth is 
estimated to have increased by 
2017
2017
3.6%
3.7%

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
20
Appreciation
I would like to thank all our stakeholders for their unwavering support in 2017 as we continue to work hard to build a more resilient and 
prosperous company. As we embark on 2018, I would like to thank my team at NSE for making 2017 a success and look forward to the 
next phase of our journey.
I would like to thank all our shareholders for their support and confidence in the management, I wish to sincerely thank the Chairman 
and Board of Directors for their steadfast leadership and guidance. I look forward to your wise counsel in this next phase of our growth.
 
The NSE has established a solid base and structure aimed at attracting investors seeking value. shareholders and attract long-term 
investors seeking substantive value. I am very confident of our ability to grow our pan African market share and sustain the growth of 
the Company. 
GEOFFREY O. ODUNDO
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Total income increased by 6% from 
Kshs. 717.2 million in 2016 to
Kshs. 757 million in 2017. 
6% 
2017
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 21
MR. SAMUEL KIMANI, CHAIRMAN
Mr. Kimani is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
of Jamii Bora Bank Ltd. He has a wealth of experience in the 
banking industry having served as the Deputy CEO and Finance 
Director of the Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) Group. 
Prior to this, he served at the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) as Dep-
uty Chief Banking Manager, Deputy Director Financial Markets, 
Principle Financial Accountant, and the Chief Internal Auditor. He 
also headed the Surveillance Division of the Deposit Protection 
Fund and served as a Senior Auditor at PriceWaterhouseCoopers.
Mr. Kimani is a Certified Public Accountant of Kenya (CPA-K) and 
a graduate of the Advanced Management Program (AMP 177) 
from Harvard University. He holds an MBA in Strategic Manage-
ment and a BSc. in Civil Engineering, both from the University of 
Nairobi.
He sits on the boards of the Central Depository and Settlement 
Corporation (CDSC) and is a member of the University of Stellen-
bosch Executive Education Advisory Board (USB-AB). 
MR. BOB KARINA, VICE CHAIRMAN
Mr. Karina is the Founder and Chairman of Faida Investment 
Bank. He is an accomplished Stockbroker, Corporate Finance 
Specialist and Research Analyst having served as the Chairman 
of Association of Kenya Stockbrokers (AKS) Nominees Ltd and 
Founder Member of the Institute of Certified Investment and 
Financial Analysts (ICIFA). 
He holds an MSc. in Corporate Finance from the University of 
Liverpool, in the UK in addition to key technical professional 
qualifications.
As the Chair of the Implementation Committee that spearheaded 
developments in Kenya’s Capital Market, Mr. Karina played a critical 
role in the establishment of the Central Depository and Settlement 
Corporation (CDSC), the NSE Automated Trading System (ATS), the 
Wide Area Network (WAN) and the Broker Back Office (BBO).
He serves as the Chairman of Norwich Union Properties Ltd, Vice 
Chairman of the Rwanda Stock Exchange (RSE), A Board Member 
of the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC) 
and A Director of Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE). He has served as 
Director of Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) and Director at 
the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI).
MS. SHARON MAVIALA
Ms. Maviala is the General Manager of Horizons Group Limited, 
an indigenous serviced office business with footprints in Kenya, 
Ghana and Nigeria. She has extensive experience in business law 
having practiced in leading law firms in Kenya including Company 
Secretary for Sanlam Group of Companies.
She holds a Bachelor Degree in Law from the University of Reading 
and Masters in Business Administration (Strategic Management) 
from USIU-Africa. She is a qualified Advocate and a Certified 
Public Secretary. 
She has experience as an in-house general counsel and business 
executive across a diverse range of industry sectors ranging from 
legal services to financial services, insurance and real estate.  She 
is a member of the Law Society of Kenya (LSK), Institute of Certified 
Public Secretaries (ICPSK), the Institute of Directors and Women on 
Board Networks. 
 
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
22
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued)
MR. HOSEA KILI
Mr. Kili is the Group Managing Director and CEO of CPF Financial 
Services Ltd. Mr. Kili has considerable experience in legal matters, 
corporate governance, management and investment of pension 
schemes having served as the Chairperson of the East & Central 
Social Security Association (ECASSA), a regional social security 
body. 
He holds an MBA in Strategic Management from the Management 
College of Southern Africa (MANCOSA) and a Bachelors of Law 
(LLB) from the University of Nairobi (UoN).
He serves as the Chairman of Association of Pension Administrators 
of Kenya (APAK) and Chairman of ICL, a subsidiary company of 
ICPSK. In 2011, Mr. Kili was conferred the Order of the Grand 
Warrior (O.G.W), a Head of State award for his exemplary service 
by H.E the President of Kenya. 
He is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya, Fellow of the 
Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya F (CPS-K) and 
Fellow of the Kenya Institute of Management. 
DR. WINNIE NYAMUTE
Dr. Nyamute is a lecturer in Finance and Accounting at the 
University of Nairobi (UoN). 
She holds a PhD in Business Administration - Finance, an
MBA - Finance and a Bachelor of Commerce in Accounting. She is 
a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), a Member of Kenya Institute 
of Management (KIM), the Association of Women Accountants of 
Kenya and the Institute of Directors (IOD). 
She serves on the Research and Education Committee of the 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK). She is 
also a faculty advisor for the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) 
Challenge, UoN as well as a Board Advisor for the Finance Students 
Association (FISA) of UoN. She is the coordinator for partnerships 
and linkages for the UoN School of Business (UoN).
Dr. Nyamute is a panel judge of the Excellency in Financial 
Reporting (FiRe) Awards Scheme. Dr. Nyamute previously served as 
a member of the ICPAK’s Audit Quality Assurance and the Special 
Interest Group Committees. 
MR. JIMNAH MBARU
Mr. Mbaru is the Chairman of Dyer & Blair Investment Bank. 
Mr. Mbaru has over 30 years’ experience in the financial services 
sector. He served as the founding Chairman of the African 
Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA) and former Chairman of 
the Nairobi Securities Exchange.
Mr. Mbaru is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya and holds 
a Bachelors of Commerce degree from University of Nairobi, a 
Masters of Business Administration degree from IMD, Lausanne, 
Switzerland and a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree from University 
of Nairobi.
Mr. Mbaru serves as a member of the Investment Committee 
for the International Finance Corporation’s Africa Capitalization 
Fund, which focuses on funding financial institutions in Africa. 
He also serves as a Director of Britam Investments Company 
Limited; Occidental Insurance Company; Jitegemee Trust (Kenya); 
Pinebridge Investments East Africa Limited; and Sanlam Africa Core 
Real Estate Investments Limited (SACREIL), listed on the Mauritius 
Stock Exchange.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 23
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued)
MR. JAMES MWORIA
Mr. Mworia is the Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing 
Director of Centum Investment Company Limited (Centum) a 
position he has held since 2008. He holds a Bachelor of Law (LLB) 
degree from the University of Nairobi (UoN).
He is a Chartered Financial Analyst Charter Holder, a Chartered 
Global Management Accountant (CGMA), a member of the 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK) and is a 
Fellow of the Kenyan Institute of Management (KIM). 
Mr. Mworia serves as the Chairman of Sidian Bank and Almasi 
Beverages. He has been a recipient of various national and 
international leadership awards including: The East Africa
Business Leader of the year (2015) by All Africa Business Leaders 
Awards (AABLA) and The Africa CEO of the year award (2016) by 
the Wharton Club for Africa.
Mr. Mworia is also an Archbishop Tutu Fellow 2012, and an 
Advocate of the High Court of Kenya.
MR. MICHAEL TURNER
Mr. Turner is the Managing Director of Actis Limited in East Africa 
and is responsible for Actis’s USD 300m Private Equity Fund, with 
investment in Energy and Real Estate in East Africa.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales and holds a First Class degree in Civil Engineering.
He has extensive experience in private equity having served as the 
manager of the Actis Africa Agribusiness Fund and the founder 
manager of the first  Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SME) 
Private Equity fund in East Africa – the Acacia Fund.
Mr. Turner has deep understanding of Private Equity investment 
in agribusiness, financial services, real estate and infrastructure 
throughout Sub Saharan Africa. Prior to joining Actis, Michael 
worked in investment banking in London, for Lehman Brothers
and Kleinwort Benson, having started his career with Price 
Waterhouse.
Mr. Vollant is the General Manager for business development at 
TNG Limited, an Australian listed company focused on developing 
the world class Mount Peake project. Paul is responsible for the 
company’s commercial developments and trading. 
He holds a Master of Science (MSc) in Business Administration 
from the ESDES Business School at the Catholic University of Lyon 
(France) and is a Graduate of the Australian Institute of Company 
Directors.
Prior to joining TNG, Mr. Vollant was the Managing Director of 
Element Commodities where he spearheaded the company’s 
European Middle East and African (EMEA) trading and investments 
in the mining assets in French Speaking Africa. He began his career 
with the Noble Group in Hong Kong and London.
MR. PAUL VOLLANT
MRS. NASSIM DEVJI
Mrs. Devji is the Managing Director and Group Chief Executive 
of Diamond Trust Bank (DTB) Group, a position she has held 
since 1996. She has since been appointed Group Chief Executive 
Officer of Diamond Trust Bank - East Africa.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
England and Wales, an Associate of the Institute of Taxation 
(United Kingdom) and a Fellow of the Kenya Institute of Bankers.
Mrs. Devji serves as a Director of DTB Tanzania, DTB Uganda, DTB 
Burundi, Jubilee Insurance Burundi and Diamond Trust Insurance 
Agency Limited. She is also a member of Kenya Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
24
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued)
MR. GEOFFREY ODUNDO
Mr. Odundo is the Chief Executive of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. He is an accomplished Investment Banker having been in the 
financial services sector for the last 26 years, 20 of which have been in the Capital Markets.
He is an Advanced Management Program (AMP) graduate from Strathmore Business School and holds a Master’s degree in Strategic 
Management and an undergraduate degree in Mathematics and Economics.
Prior to his appointment, Mr. Odundo was the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Kingdom Securities Limited. He was 
instrumental in the setting up of Co-op Trust Investment Services, Co-op Consultancy Services Limited and Kingdom Securities Limited. 
Mr. Odundo has advised on a number of corporate finance mandates in both the public and private sectors; he has also managed key 
mandates in the asset management industry. He has contributed to the growth of the Capital Markets in his previous role as a Director/
Board Secretary - Kenya Association of Stock Brokers and Investment Banks, Chairman of the Financial Standards Committee - Kenya 
Bureau of Standards as well as the Board Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited. Mr. Odundo serves as a Director of the 
Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC) Limited, Director of the NSE Clear Limited; and a trustee of the NSE Fidelity Funds.
He is a member of the Central Bank Consolidative Forum for Domestic Debt Market (CFDDM) and a Council Member of the Institute of 
Certified Investment Financial Analysts (ICIFA). 
Mr. Odundo is also a board member of the African Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA), a Director of the East African Securities 
Exchanges Association and a Member of the Thomson Reuters Africa Customer Advisory Network.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 25
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued)
Paul Vollant
     Sharon Maviala
     James Mworia
    Hosea Kiili
Michael Turner
Bob Karina
Samuel Kimani
Nassim Devji
     Paul Vollant
Winnie Nyamute
Geoffrey Odundo
   Hosea Kili
    Sharon Maviala
Nasim Devji
Jimnah Mbaru

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
26
 
  Jane Kiarie
Finance and Administration Director
 
 Geoffrey O. Odundo
Chief Executive
 
Terrence Adembesa
 Derivatives Market Director
  Bahati Moraa
Business Development &
Commercial Director
   Kuria Waithaka
Legal & Corporate Affairs Director
    Tom Kimaru
Regulatory Affairs Director
  Lucy Kamar
        Head of Human Capital 
    Paul Ngaragari
Operations & Technology Director
Internal Audit Director
   Caleb Kivuva
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 27
 
Overview
Corporate governance refers to the structures and processes 
guiding the leadership of the Group. The Group has instituted 
systems to ensure that high standards of corporate governance are 
maintained at all levels of the organization and is in compliance 
with the requirements of all applicable laws and regulations 
including but not limited to the Capital Markets Authority rules, 
regulations and guidelines on Corporate Governance and the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange Management & Membership rules and 
policies and procedure.
The Role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible to the Group’s shareholders 
for the long-term success of the Group and its strategic direction, 
its values and governance. It provides the leadership, integrity, 
enterprise and good judgment necessary to meet its business 
objectives within the framework of its internal controls while also 
discharging the Group’s obligations to its shareholders. 
The Key Responsibilities of the Board include: 
a)	
To define and chart out the Group’s vision and mission. The 
Board has ultimate responsibility for the attainment of the 
Group’s vision;
b)	
To set the strategy, approve business plans and annual budgets 
and of any subsequent material changes in strategic direction;
c)	
To monitor Management’s implementation of the strategic 
plans and financial objectives as defined by the Board;
d)	
To define levels of materiality, reserving specific powers to 
itself and delegating other matters with the necessary written 
authority to Management;
e)	
To ensure that the Group is managed with a view to ensuring 
that the Group is ethical in all its dealings and exercises 
corporate social responsibility;
f)	
To ensure that procedures and processes are in place to 
protect the Group’s assets and reputation;
g)	
To ensure compliance by the Group with all relevant laws and 
regulations, audit and accounting principles, and such other 
principles as may be established by the Board from time to 
time;
h)	
To approve Terms of Reference of Board Committees and 
make appointments and changes in the composition of such 
committees as are established from time to time;
i)	
To identify key risks, opportunities and strengths relating to 
the Group;
j)	
To set policies on internal controls and obtain regular 
assurance that the system is functioning effectively and is 
effective in managing risks;
k)	
To appoint the Chief Executive, senior staff, the external 
auditor and other consultants; and
l)	
To exercise such other powers as are necessary to enforce the 
requirements of the Capital Markets Authority Act, Articles of 
Association and the Rules governing the Group.
Division of Responsibilities
The Chairman and the Chief Executive are responsible for the 
profitable operations of the Group. Their roles are separate, with 
each having distinct and clearly defined roles and responsibilities. 
The Chairman directs the Board’s business and acts as it’s facilitator 
and guide ensuring that the Board is effective in its tasks of 
setting and implementing the Group’s direction and strategy. The 
Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, for ensuring 
its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and for facilitating the 
productive contribution of all Directors. The Chairman sets the 
agenda for the Board meetings in consultation with the Chief 
Executive. The Chairman is accountable to the Board for leading 
the direction of the Group’s corporate and financial strategy and 
for the overall supervision of the policies, rules and regulations 
governing the Group.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the business 
of the Group. The Chief Executive enforces the provisions of 
the Capital Markets Authority Act (the “Act”) and the rules of 
the Group and immediately reports any violations to the Board 
and the Capital Markets Authority (CMA/the “Authority”) and 
ensures compliance with the requirements of the Act, and rules 
in operations, transactions and all affairs of the Group including 
listings and continuous reporting obligations of listed companies.
The Chief Executive is also responsible for the supervision of the 
trading activities of the Group and takes all necessary steps to 
maintain orderly and efficient trading and functioning of facilities, 
in accordance with the Group’s  rules and as prescribed by the Act.
The Chief Executive reports periodically to the Board on all matters 
concerning the operation and affairs of the Group, attends all 
meetings of the committees and provides technical input where 
necessary, promotes the objectives and functions of the Group 
and liaises with the Authority and its representatives in respect 
of administrative and technical matters of the Group. The Chief 
Executive is also responsible for the stewardship of the Group’s 
assets and, jointly with the Chairman, for representation of the 
Group externally.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
28
Board Composition
As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board of the Nairobi Securities Exchange is constituted as follows:
a. Four (4) Independent and Non-Executive Directors; 
b. Two (2) Non-Executive Directors ;
c. Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Trading Participants;
d. Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Listed Companies; and
e. One (1) Executive Director.
Below is the current composition of the Board :
Mr. Samuel Kimani     
Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Bob Karina
Vice Chairman/Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director
Ms. Sharon Maviala
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Hosea K. Kili
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Dr. Winnie Nyamute
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ms. Nasim Devji
Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Michael Turner
Non-Executive Director
Mr. James Mworia
Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Jimnah Mbaru
Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Paul Vollant
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo
Chief Executive
Mr Michael Turner was initially appointed as an Independent Non - Executive Director of NSE PLC and since he was subsequently 
appointed as a director of a listed company, he ceased to be an Independent Director and became a Non - Executive Director.
The Directors’ abridged profiles appear on pages 21 - 24 of this Annual Report.
Board Committees
The Board established seven (7) Board Committees with delegated authority to assist the Board effectively carry out its obligations. These 
Board Committees are:
a) Business, Strategy, Finance & Human Capital Committee
b) Trading & Technology Committee
c) Listing and Admissions Committee
d) Derivatives Market Oversight Committee
e) Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) Committee
f) Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
g) Remuneration & Nominating Committee
Other than the Derivatives Market Oversight Committee which has external resource persons, all other Committees are now composed 
of Board members only.
At each ordinary Board meeting, the chairpersons of the Board Committees are required to report to the Board on the highlights of the 
deliberations of the Committees and to escalate to the Board all matters requiring the Board’s consideration and approval. Below is a 
summary of the roles, membership and activities of the various committees.
a)  Business Strategy, Finance & Human Capital Committee
The mandate of the Business Strategy, Finance & Human Capital Committee is to oversee the strategic and tactical business 
development opportunities of the Group and to evaluate and advise on potential investment opportunities. The Committee also 
monitors the Group’s financial performance and treasury management, advises on human capital matters and oversees procurement 
and administration issues including property investments.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 29
b)  Trading & Technology Committee
The Trading & Technology Committee is mandated to assist the Board in effective discharge of its responsibilities in aspects of 
trading on the listed securities, information technology and enhancement of information on the securities exchange to the listed 
companies and the general public.
c)  Listing and Admissions Committee
The Listing and Admissions Committee is mandated to review and recommend approval of applications for admission to listing 
of new equity securities in any of the market segments, to recommend approval of applications for admission of new Trading 
Participants, new listing of securities and /or recommending suspension of listing of securities for a predetermined period as may be 
necessary and restoration of such securities to listing in line with the laid out procedures.  
d)  Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 
The Derivatives Market Oversight Committee is mandated to deal with strategic issues and oversight roles relating to the NSE’s 
Derivatives Market (NEXT). The Committee has key mandate to advise on the NSE Derivatives market, address conflict of interest 
matters regarding futures brokers, address issues regarding design of derivatives contracts and undertaking Derivatives Market 
trading and surveillance functions.
e)  Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) Committee
The general mandate of the Self-Regulatory Organization Committee is to protect investors by monitoring and enforcing the NSE 
Market Participants Business Conduct and Enforcement Rules, the NSE Listing Rules, the Derivatives Rules and any other Rules of the 
NSE as may be necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market, and any other laws and the enforcement powers of which 
have been delegated to the SRO function of the NSE, enforce compliance of Capital Market Laws, Regulations, Rules, Guidelines 
and Directives by all Trading Participants and Issuers of Securities, to review compliance with continuing listing obligations by 
listed companies and to make recommendations to the Board on the necessary action for non-compliance which include imposing 
penalties and other sanctions.
f)  Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee 
The mandate of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is to review the adequacy of internal and external audit programmes 
for the year and to monitor, review and make recommendations to Management on the adequacy of the Group’s internal control 
and risk management systems and to monitor, review and make recommendations to Management on the process for monitoring 
compliance with relevant laws and regulations, and, with the Group’s legal counsel if appropriate, any legal matters that could have 
a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. 
The members of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee are as outlined on pages 30 - 31 and their qualifications under the Board 
of Directors profiles on pages 21 - 23  of this Annual Report. 
g)  Remuneration & Nominating Committee
The mandate of the Remuneration & Nominating Committee is to advise, implement and assist the Board in effective discharge of its 
responsibilities in relation to remunerations and the composition of the Board of the NSE and its subsidiary, structured entities and 
associate company and to establish a plan of continuity for executive officers and other members of senior management including 
the Chief Executive.
Members and attendance of these Committees are provided on pages 30 - 32.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
30
BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2017 
Director
Classification
Designation
 
Board
      
  
S Kimani
Non-executive
Chairman -
Board
Chairman -
Listings & 
Admission 
Committee.
Membership
         P
       
       
   
  P
       
*
    
Attendance
7/7
    
      
   
1/1
      
     
     
B Karina
Non-executive
Vice 
Chairman – 
Board
Chairman 
- Trading & 
Technology 
Committee
Membership
ü  
  P
  P
    
         P
     
       
       
Attendance
7/7
5/5
4/4
      
1/1
  
  
S Maviala
Non-executive
 
Membership
  P
     
      
  
  P
  P
     
ü    
Attendance
4/7
        
   
1/1
3/3
     
3/4
H Kili
Non-executive
Chairman -
Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
(SRO) 
Committee
Membership
  P
  P
     
       P
  P
  P
ü **
 
Attendance
5/7
4/5
  
7/7
1/1
3/3
        
Dr. W 
Nyamute
Non-executive
Chairperson - 
Audit, Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee
Membership
  P
      
    
         P
         P
        P
          
 
Attendance
7/7
   
  
7/7
1/1
3/3
    
  
*Stepped down as Chairman of the Committee on 6th June 2017
** Appointed to the Committee on 6th June 2017
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
Audit, Risk 
& Corporate 
Governance 
Committee
Remuneration 
& Nominating 
Committee
Derivatives 
Market 
Oversight 
Committee
Trading & 
Technology 
Committee
Business, 
Strategy, 
Finance & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Self - 
Regulatory 
Organization 
Committee
Listing & 
Admissions 
Committee

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 31
BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2017
 
 
M Turner
Non-executive
Chairman 
-  Business 
Strategy, 
Finance, & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Membership
ü  
  P
***
 
  P
  P
ü ****
Attendance
7/7
5/5
1/4
1/1
2/3
2/4
J Mbaru
Non-executive
 
Membership
  P
  P
  P
  
  P
    
Attendance
4/7
1/5
0/4 
0/1 
      
J Mworia
Non-executive
 
Membership
  P
  P
  P
       
      
  P
Attendance
2/7
2/5
3/4
 
   
 
0/4 
N Devji
Non-executive
Chairperson -  
Remuneration 
& Nominating 
Committee 
Membership
ü  
P  
ü   
   
ü *****
  
Attendance
4/7
 
  
6/7
0/1 
 
 
 
P Vollant
Non-executive
 
Membership
ü  
P 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P
           ***
Attendance
6/7
3/5
 
0/1 
0/4
G Odundo
 
Chief Executive
Membership
  
 
         
 
 
 
Attendance
7/7
5/5
4/4
7/7
1/1
3/3
 
4/4
*** Stepped down from the Committee on 6th June 2017
****Appointed to the Committee on 6th June 2017
***** Appointed as Chairperson of the Committee on 6th June 2017
The Chief Executive is not a member of the Board Committees and attends by invitation
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
Audit, Risk 
& Corporate 
Governance 
Committee
Remuneration 
& Nominating 
Committee
Derivatives 
Market 
Oversight 
Committee
Trading & 
Technology 
Committee
Business, 
Strategy, 
Finance & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Self - 
Regulatory 
Organization 
Committee
Listing & 
Admissions 
Committee
Board
Destignation
Classification
Director

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
32
BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 
THE YEAR 2017 
Name
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee        
Attendance
S Mwangi
Chairperson -  Derivatives Market Oversight Committee
1/4
E Kigen
Member
4/4
H Muga
Member
3/4
A Mulisa
Member
4/4
J Swai
Member
3/4
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FACT SHEET
Number of Board Members
11
Number of Independent Non-Executive Directors
4
Number of Non-Executive Directors
2
Number of Trading Participant Non-Executive Directors
2
Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Listed Companies
2
Number of Executive Directors
1
Number of women on the Board
3
Separate Chairman and CEO
Yes
Terms of Reference for Board Committees
Yes
Independent Audit Committee
Yes
Number of financial experts on Audit Committee
3
Number of Board Meetings held in 2017
7
Number of Annual General Meetings in 2017
1
Re-election of Directors in accordance with Articles of Association
Yes
Board Induction Programs conducted
None 
required
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 33
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
a)  Share capital
The authorized and issued share capital of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC consists of only ordinary shares as disclosed in note 23 
to the financial statements.
b)  Top 20 Shareholders at 31 December 2017
No          Shareholder
  Number of 
shares
          
%
  1          Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE002374
41,764,400
16.094%
  2          Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE22446
22,876,288
6.407%
  3          Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030823
12,523,399
3.940%
  4          Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030824
9,236,167
3.559%
  5          Investor Compensation Fund Board
8,750,000
3.372%
  6          The Permanent Secretary to the Treasury
8,750,000
3.372%
  7          Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE002012
7,535,067
2.904%
  8          Nyaga Stockbrokers Limited
7,000,000
2.697%
  9          Discount Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.697%
10          Francis Thuo & Partners Limited
7,000,000
2.697%
11          Sterling Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.697%
12          ABC Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.697%
13          Old Mutual Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.697%
14          Kingdom Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.697%
15          Renaissance Capital (Kenya) Limited 
7,000,000
2.697%
16          Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Limited
6,000,000
2.312%
17          Standard Chartered Nominees Non-resident A/C 9661
4,536,800
1.748%
18          Faida Investment Bank Limited
4,000,000
1.541%
19          Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE002373
4,000,000
1.541%
20          NIC Securities Limited
3,500,000
1.349%
___________
_________
Top 20 shareholders
189,472,121
73.014%
Others
70,028,670
26.986%
___________
_________
Total issued shares
259,500,791
100.000%
=========
========
  c)    Distribution of Shareholders at 31 December 2017
Number of 
Shareholders
  Number of 
shares
%
Less than 500
1,762
350,486
0.14%
501 – 5,000
10,160
13,350,589
5.14%
5,001 – 10,000
634
4,498,897
1.73%
10,001 – 100,000
562
14,445,748
5.57%
100,001 – 1,000,000
                     
11,041,065
4.25%
 Above 1,000,000
34
215,814,006
83.17%
______
___________
_________
Total 
13,196
259,500,791
100.000%
=====
=========
========
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
44

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
34
 d)  Shareholder Analysis by Domicile at 31 December 2017
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Individual investors
Local
12,351
32,056,508
12.35%
East African
91
263,504
0.10%
Foreign
111
3,264,070
1.26%
______
_________
______
12,553
35,584,082
13.71%
______
_________
______
 Institutional investors
 Local
610
102,436,702
39.47%
 East African
11
264,466
0.10%
 Foreign
22
121,215,541
46.71%
_______
__________
______
643
223,916,709
86.29%
_______
__________
______
Total
13,196
259,500,791
100.000%
======
=========
========
 e)  Directors Holding Shares at 31 December 2017
Number of
 shares
%
      Mr. Geoffrey Odundo
49,000
0.019%
      Mrs. Nasim Devji
45,600
0.018%
      Mr. Samuel Kimani
8,000
0.003%
      Mr. Hosea Kili
4,400
0.002%
      Dr. Winnie Nyamute
2,000
0.001%
________
_______
      Total
109,000
0.043%
=======
======
	
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
CAPITAL STRUCTURE (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 35
c) Policies and practices of the Board in respect of matters such
    as corporate governance, trading by directors, declarations and
    conflicts of interest, Board meeting documentation and
    procedures and the nomination of directors, training and    
    evaluation of directors and members of Board committees.    
   
Whilst the Board Charter includes references to minimum 
acceptable standards of conduct, the Board embraces global best 
practices in this regard. 
Board Diversity
The NSE Board has put in place a policy to ensure the achievement 
of diversity in its composition. The Remuneration and Nominating 
Committee asseses the required skills mix and expertise for the 
executive directors as well as Independent and Non Executive 
Directors. The Board considers factors such as: size, qualifications, 
technical expertise, relevant industry knowledge,experience, 
nationality, age, gender and other demographics with a view to 
enhancing effectivenesss. 
NSE promotes diversity by championing Gender Equality, along 
side other exchanges, investors, private sector and regulators.
Board Induction and Training
The NSE Board has established a formal induction program for the 
Board. All Board members receive induction on joining the Board 
and are updated on the various skills and knowledge at regular 
intervals.
Board members are provided with necessary orientation in the areas 
of the Company’s business (the Company’s operations, product 
offerings, regulatory framework and the business environment) in 
order to enhance their effectiveness. They are also introduced to 
their fiduciary duties and responsibilities. 
The Board has aslo put in place training programs for the members.
Board Remuneration
The NSE Board has established formal and transparent 
remuneration policies to attract and retain both Executive and 
Non-Executive Board members. These policies clearly state 
remuneration elements such as Directors’ fees and attendance 
allowances that are competitive and in line with the industry 
practice. Non-Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for 
every meeting attended. 
The Company does not grant any personal loans, guarantees, share 
options or long term incentives to its Non-Executive Directors. 
Neither are the Non-Executive Directors eligible for provident 
fund. The company has taken out insurance covers for the non-
executive Directors covering Directors and Officers liability 
insurance cover and group personal accident covering death, 
permanent total disability and medical expenses.
The Chief Executive is the only Executive Director on the Board 
and the company has in place a remuneration policy which is 
aimed at ensuring compensation is competitive and aligned to the 
company’s strategic objectives.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICY 
STATEMENTS
Code of Corporate Governance Principles
The Board and Management of the NSE have put in place deliberate 
effort towards full compliance with the Capital Markets Code of 
Corporate Governance Practice for Issuers of Securities to the 
Public 2015 (the “Code”).
In order to ensure full compliance, the Company conducted a 
Regulatory and Compliance Assessment which included:
a) Comprehensive analysis of legislation applicable to NSE as a
    Company, as an issuer and as a market intermediary;    
b) Analysis of the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for
    Issuers of Securities to the Public, 2015;
c) Analysis of legislation prescribing compliance requirements to
    the various functions of NSE;
 d) Development of a comprehensive Compliance Matrix based on
     the review of the foregoing legislations;
e) Drafting of various types of Policy Documents and mandates 
    required by the Capital Markets Authority Code of Corporate 
    Governance Practice for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 
    (the “Code”); and
   
f)  Completing the NSE Corporate Governance Reporting Matrix as 
     required by the Capital Markets Authority. 
The Company continues to address the notable areas of 
improvement as follows:
   
a) Engaging an external legal counsel in good standing with
    the Law Society of Kenya to undertake the bi-annual Legal
    and Compliance Audit.  
      
b) Engaging an external governance auditor, accredited by the
    Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya to undertake
    the annual Governance Audit.        
These audits are expected to be completed in the first half of 2018.
Board Charter
The Board of Directors of the NSE regard corporate governance 
as key to the achievement of NSE’s mission and vision, and is 
committed to applying the core governance principles.
The NSE Board Charter outlines the;
  a) Roles, functions, responsibilities and powers of the Board,
       individual directors and the officials and executives of the NSE; 
   b) Powers delegated to various Board Committees of the NSE;
       and   

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
36
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
Corporate Governance Policy Statements 
(Continued)
Code of Ethics and Conduct
The Company has a Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy. All 
Board members and NSE employees are required to uphold the 
highest standards of integrity, morality, ethical standards and 
confidentiality in line with NSE’s core values of ethics, integrity, 
confidentiality, innovation and excellence. All staff and Board 
members are appraised on the policy requirements through 
targeted awareness programs such as e-Learning modules and are 
required to complete the same to ensure compliance.
NSE recognizes that ethical business brings good business. We are 
committed to playing a proactive role in a globally competitive 
and prosperous nation operating on ethical business standards. 
NSE joined the UN Global Compact and signed the Code of Ethics for 
Business in Kenya. This “Code of Ethics” was developed on behalf 
of the private sector by Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), 
Global Compact Network Kenya, and the Kenya Association of 
Manufacturers (KAM).
Whistleblowing
The NSE Board has put in place a Whistleblowing Policy that 
recognizes the difficulty its stakeholders may face in raising their 
concerns with regards to the Company operations. The Policy 
protects every employee and business partner who raises a concern 
in good faith. The Company will treat every concern raised by an 
employee in good faith seriously and in a confidential manner and 
does not retaliate or allow any retaliation or discrimination by its 
employees of any kind against any employee who raises a concern 
in good faith.
Stakeholders can raise their concerns with the relevant Company 
officials and/or through the available reporting channels. Staff and 
other stakeholders are regularly sensitized on the need to report 
any suspected unethical business practices and procedure to make 
such reports. The summary of this policy is available in our website.
Insider Dealing
The NSE has an insider trading policy guided by Sections 32A – 33 
of Part VI of the Capital Markets Act (Cap 485A) which prohibits 
insider trading. The policy provides procedures and guidelines 
with respect to transactions in the NSE securities, the protection 
of Insider Information and the standard of conduct expected of the 
NSE directors, officers and employees. NSE has annual awareness 
programs to staff on the policy and its procedures.
Investors are made aware that they ought not to trade in the 
Company’s shares while in possession of any insider information 
that is not available to the public or during a closed period. NSE’s 
closed period covers between 1st January until publication of full 
year results and 1st July until publication of half year results.
Conflict of Interest
The Board has put in place a policy to manage conflict of interest. 
As a procedure, Directors declare any real or perceived conflict of 
interest with the Company and such disclosures are reflected in 
the Minutes of the Board and Committee’s meeting. The Company 
Secretary maintains and updates the register of declared conflict 
of interest. The Board is appraised on the statutory duty to avoid 
situations in which they have or may have interests that conflict 
with those of the Company.
All business transactions with Board members or their related 
parties are carried out at arms’ length. In practice, there is an 
acknowledgement that if it comes to the attention of a Board 
member that a matter concerning the Company may result in a 
conflict of interest, the Board member is obligated to declare and 
exclude himself/herself from any deliberations, voting or decision 
over the matter in conflict.
Enterprise Risk Management 
The objective of the NSE’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
framework is to protect shareholders’ value in order to enhance 
NSE’s competitive advantage, improve business performance and 
optimize risk management and compliance value. The framework 
is aligned to ISO 31000:2018 Risk Management Guidelines, COSO 
Enterprise Risk Management 2017 as well the applicable laws, 
regulations and guidelines.
(More notes on page 38 - 40)
Board Evaluation
The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its effectiveness 
in guiding the company toward achievement of its strategy and 
specific objectives in a given year. In January 2018, the Company 
engaged the Institute of Directors (Kenya) to perform an evaluation 
of the performance of the Chairman, the Board Committees, 
individual Directors, the Chief Executive and the Company 
Secretary collectively, and individually, through peer evaluations, 
for the year 2017.
The results of the evaluation were discussed with the Board during 
their Board meeting on 19th March 2018; and, as the responsibility 
for Board effectiveness ultimately lies with the Chairman of the 
Board, he provided further constructive feedback separately to 
each Director from the results of the peer evaluations.
Information and Communication Technology
The NSE leverages heavily on technology to deliver its core 
mandate of delivering a world class trading platform.
The NSE Board has prioritized cyber security and related 
Information Technology risks. To ensure confidentiality, integrity 
and availability of the various platforms, the Exchange has adopted 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cyber Security 
Framework as the back bone of its Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT) and Cyber Security policies. Being a full member 
of the World Federation of Exchange (WFE), the NSE is constantly 
benchmarking with international best practices as well and has 
tailored the policy framework relevant to securities trading.
The Exchange has in place relevant ICT policies, procedures as well 
as enforcing the practices that are congruent to these policies.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 37
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
Corporate Governance Policy Statements 
(Continued)
Information and Communication Technology 
(continued)
The Management and staff are actively driving a cyber security 
conscious culture within the organization. There is commensurate 
investment in setting up controls and monitoring tools to assure 
the various stakeholders of security in access and use of the ICT 
assets of the organization.
Procurement
We have in place a robust Procurement Policy that ensures 
appropriate risk assurance, integrity in all procurement activities, 
consistency across the organizations purchasing practices and 
openness and transparency of decision making when dealings with 
suppliers/service providers.
The policy is based on notable principles: namely, value for money, 
open and fair competition, risk management, accountability and 
building mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers. A 
Management Tender Committee oversees the award of tenders 
and reports to the Business, Strategy, Finance and Human Capital 
Committee of the Board based on the limits as set out in the 
Procurement Policy.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
38
 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) remains integral to generating sustainable stakeholder value. The NSE continues to implement the 
principles of sound Corporate Governance to the extent that risk management is not only a reporting and oversight obligation, but 
management culture. In support of this, NSE Departmental risk champions have been appointed to further support the formal risk 
reporting structures and to embed risk management practices. The objective of the NSE ERM framework is to protect and enhance 
NSE value in order to enhance competitive advantage, improve business performance, increase operational efficiency, optimize risk 
management and enhance compliance value.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
NSE Board and the Audit, Risk & Compliance 
Committee
The NSE Board has constituted the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee to help 
it to discharge its duties and responsibilities with regard to risk management. 
The Committee provides ERM oversight by monitoring the implementation of 
the NSE enterprise risk framework and driving corrective actions based on the 
risk reports provided at least on a quarterly basis. 
NSE Executive Committee
The NSE Executive Committee is responsible for driving the defined risk 
management process across the organization. This is done to enable 
Management identify inherent risks that, if they occur, will affect the NSE 
in achieving its strategic objectives. These risks must be managed within the 
approved risk appetite.
Legal and Corporate Affairs Division
The Legal and Corporate Affairs division, specifically the Risk and Compliance 
Department, is the coordinator of the NSE ERM process and spearheads its 
implementation and reporting. 
THE ERM APPROACH
NSE Enterprise Risk Management framework is aligned to the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission 
framework 2017 Guidelines and the principles defined in International Organization of Standards (ISO) 31000:2018 as depicted below:
     Value Creation 
  and
    Protection
    Leadership
            and
      Commitment
 Integrated
 Integration
Design  
 Implementation
Evaluation 
Improvement 
Structured
       and 
Comprehensive
Customized
Inclusive
 Dynamic
Human and
Cultural Factors
Best Available
 Information
  Continual 
Improvement
Scope, Context, Criteria
        Risk Treatment
RECORDING & REPORTING
MONITORING & REVIEW
COMMUNICATION 
& CONSULTATION
RISK ASSESMENT
Risk Indentification
Risk Analysis
Risk Evaluation
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) 
FRAMEWORK

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 39
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) FRAMEWORK (Continued)
NSE RISK UNIVERSE
Some of the key risk areas that NSE is exposed to include:
HIGH-LEVEL RISK MITIGATION
NSE continues to proactively monitor its risk, implement measures to mitigate their effects and cushion the Exchange from adverse
effects. We continue to monitor the environment, actively engaging with stakeholders, performing regular Risk and Control Self
Assessments and improving the controls, where necessary.
As we continuously strengthen the NSE ERM framework, we will include the adoption of Key Risk Indicators (KRIs). The KRIs measure the
level of risk or the effectiveness of a control. The KRIs trends are tracked over a period of time and their aggregate averages are adopted 
as the risk tolerance limits for the particular residual risks.
 
Risk as a result of market movements. NSE may be exposed to the fluctuations in the value of its 
assets, the amount of its liabilities, or the income from its assets. Sources of general market risk 
include movements in interest rates, equities, exchange rates and adverse market volatility, etc.
This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems or 
from external events. The NSE’s risk of losses, whether financial or otherwise, resulting from fraud, 
errors, omissions and other operational and compliance matters, are adequately managed.
Legal risk is the potential loss that can occur arising from legal disputes that could lead to litigation 
or settlement, instituted by customers, counter parties, employees, shareholders, the authorities or 
third parties against the NSE.
This is the risk of non-compliance with regulatory requirements. This is a prospective risk to earnings 
or capital arising (due to fines) from violations or non-compliance with laws and regulations 
including standards issued by the regulator from time to time. Also the risk that unanticipated new 
laws or regulations will result in the need to change business practices that may lead to financial 
loss.
This is the risk that a counterparty (“obligor”) will fail to meet its obligations in accordance with the 
agreed terms. e.g. when a creditor fails or delays to perform its contractual obligations thereby 
affecting NSE’s ability to meet its fiduciary as they fall due.
Credit risk may arise from underlying causes that impact upon the credit worthiness of the parties. It 
calls for monitoring the credit exposure in relation to clients, including: pre-settlement credit 
exposures (for example marking to market of outstanding trades) and related settlement risk.
This is the risk that the NSE may fail to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due. 
This is the risk arising from business decisions that are not alligned to the NSE Strategy, improper 
implementation of decisions or lack of responsiveness to industry changes. 
This is the potential that negative publicity regarding the business practices of NSE whether true or 
not will cause a decline in the investor base, revenue reduction or could lead to costly litigation. 
This may result from NSE’s inability to effectively manage any or all of the other risks.
Market
Risk
Operational
Risk
Legal
Risk
Regulatory
Risk
Counterparty
Risk
Credit
Risk
Liquidity
Risk
Strategic
Risk
Reputational
Risk

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
40
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) FRAMEWORK (Continued)
FIRST LINE OF
DEFENCE
Risk Owners - All Divisions/Departments
Business and support functions
embedding risk management practices
Accountable for:
   Identification
   Assessment
   Mitigation
   Monitoring and
   Reporting of risk relative 
   to approved policies 
   and appetite
SECOND LINE 
OF DEFENCE
Risk Oversight - Risk & Compliance
   Establish risk management
   practices and provide risk
   guidance
   Provide oversight of the
   effectiveness of first line
   risk management practices
   Monitor and independently report 
   on level of risk against
   established appetite
THIRD LINE 
OF DEFENCE
Independent Assurance - Audit
Primarily provided by internal
audit
Independent assurance to
management and the Board of
Directors on effectiveness of the 
control environment.
         EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (EXCO)
AUDIT, RISK & 
COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
NSE BOARD
The NSE ERM framework has adopted three lines of defence operating model which is illustrated below :
Note : For further information on Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies, refer to pages 97-103 of this Annual Report.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 41
Discover Opportunity
www.nse.co.ke
Bring your
aspiration to life
Call us today to realize your ambitions.
Watch your property achieve it’s full potential 
and be part of Kenyas success through the 
support of like-minded investors with NSE Reits. 
T. + 254 (020) 2831000 / 2831241
E. info@nse.co.ke
@NSE_PLC
@nse_plc
facebook.com/pages/NSE-PLC

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
42
• Shareholders
•  Investors (Individual, Corporate, Local, Foreign) 
• Employees
• Tenants
• Suppliers
• Trading Participants and KASIB
• Advisors 
   (Nominated Advisors (NOMADs) and ASDs)
• Intermediaries
   (Fund Managers, Pension Funds)
• Regulators, Government, Strategic Partners
   (National Treasury, Capital Markets Authority (CMA), Retirement
   Benefits Authority (RBA), Insurance Regulatory Authority (IRA), 
   Central Bank of Kenya(CBK), United Nations Sustainable Stock 
   Exchanges (UN SSE),United Nations Global Compact, African Securities
   Exchanges Association (ASEA), East African Securities Exchanges 
   Association (EASEA) and World Federation of Exchanges (WFE)
• Media
• Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Partners)
NSE STAKEHOLDERS

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 43
Our Approach to Sustainability
Since its establishment in 1954, NSE has been a part of Kenya’s success story, which continues to evolve. Every day, there are new 
challenges and ideas that lead to more achievements and milestones for the Group. As we continue to operate in a challenging economic 
environment, and competitive business environment, we need to differentiate our business and ensure that our stakeholders understand 
what we stand for as a business. We offer a world class trading facility for local and international investors looking to gain exposure to 
Kenya and Africa’s economic growth, and optimise our capital to ensure a comprehensive, sustainable business.
We recognise the important role we play in the local and regional markets. This role encompasses not only operational and business 
targets but also environmental, social and governance (ESG) accountabilities.
Commitment to Sustainability
Sustainability is based on NSE’s mission, vision and  values. Ethical business is ensured by adopting sustainability in our corporate 
strategy. Additionally, Policies and Codes of Conduct for employees and service providers guide our daily operations. Our commitment to 
sustainability underpins our business strategies and operating policies and is indicative of our commitment to shareholders, customers, 
employees, stakeholders and society. We believe that we have a responsibility to serve as a centre for best practices and innovation in 
order to move our markets forward.
We engage regularly with the regulators and contribute actively to the industry-led debates on ESG disclosure and Sustainable finance. 
These are consistent with our wider geographic presence and as an acknowledgement of the strategic role of corporate responsibility in 
ensuring we act as a good corporate citizen in the communities in which we operate.
How we manage sustainability :
The NSE is a member of the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative, which aims at ensuring that Exchanges are well placed to 
have a measurable impact on four Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to which we have aligned our sustainability strategy as below:
SDG
TARGET
NSE’S COMMITMENT
Gender Equality            
(Goal 5) 
Ensure women’s full and effective participation and 
equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of 
decision-making in political, economic, and public 
life.
Promote gender diversity among listed companies
Ensure accessibility of capital market services to 
female entrepreneurs and female investors 
Sustainability 
Information           
(Goal 12)
Encourage companies, especially large and trans-
national companies, to adopt sustainable practices 
and to integrate sustainability information into 
their reporting cycle
Provide guidance and training for companies on 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting
Climate Change 
(Goal 13)
Improve education, awareness raising and human 
and institutional capacity on climate change 
mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction, and early 
warning
Create and promote financial products that stimulate 
awareness or mobilize finance towards ‘green 
growth’ sectors
Provide guidance and training to both companies and 
investors on climate-related disclosure initiatives
Global Partnerships 
(Goal 17)
Enhance the global partnership for sustainable 
development complemented by multi-stakeholder 
partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, 
expertise, technologies and financial resources 
to support the achievement of sustainable 
development goals in all countries, particularly 
developing countries. 
Enhance the dialogue by joining the SSE as a Partner 
Exchange participating in the SSE Global & Regional 
Dialogues.
Educate our market, as a channel between investors 
and listed companies, to encourage collective action
Engage our fellow exchanges; reach out to our peers 
for advice, practical examples and support. 
 
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW  

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
44
Striving for Fair, Transparent and Efficient Markets
NSE as a Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) works closely with 
the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) to set and ensure compliance 
to high-quality regulatory and investment industry standards to 
protect investors and strengthen market integrity while maintaining 
efficient and competitive capital markets. Communication and 
consultation with the industry, investors and other stakeholders 
are core elements of the policy development process. We are 
committed to constructive engagement with stakeholders because 
it promotes fair, transparent and efficient markets for all, resulting 
in a more just, sustainable and inclusive market.
As the global network becomes more integrated and extends its 
coverage, implementing global best standards and practices and 
promoting cooperation becomes key to ensuring market integrity 
and investor confidence. Investors are progressively expressing 
their need for greater disclosure and transparency from companies 
and are hoping to see more in-depth information.
Sustainability Performance
As a Partner Exchange in the United Nations SSE Initiative, 
a member of the UN Global Compact and a signatory to the 
Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya, our significant progress in 
sustainability efforts is in line with our commitment to actively 
contribute to the implementation of transparency on ESG matters 
in our markets. As we endeavour to champion the development of 
sustainable Capital Markets that will create long term value for all 
our stakeholders. 
We owe our achievements to our human capital – our Board, 
Management and entire workforce. At NSE we recruit and 
continually develop diversified talent to fulfil their potential. Our 
track record is one of growth and innovation driven by highly 
capable and engaged teams. 
In 2017, partnerships continued to be a key driver for our 
sustainability efforts. NSE has partnered with the Government, 
Private Sector and the Civil Society among others to progress its 
sustainability agenda.
In the year under review, we managed to make progress in our 
various sustainability efforts as here below;
1.	 Capacity Building and Financial Inclusion
Investor education is at the heart of our strategy of expanding the 
market. We have a dedicated public education and training team 
which support various investor education programs. 
We run a flagship program dubbed The NSE Investment 
Challenge. The challenge, now in its tenth year, aims at enhancing 
financial literacy amongst our youth while inculcating a saving 
and investment culture. The annual online trading competition 
is a simulation of the activities that happen around trading in 
securities at the NSE. 
This initiative has so far impacted over 46,000 participants 
equipping them with fundamental financial and investment skills.
We also work closely with schools and tertiary institutions to 
impact financial skills to our youth. NSE also organizes sensitization 
visits throughout the year educating Kenyans on opportunities 
available at the market.
The Exchange also has an annual training calendar which focuses on 
ensuring that all NSE stakeholders and market participants are in a 
position to make well informed decisions relating to their respective 
areas of specialization and operation. 
Nairobi Securities Exchange CE, Geoffrey Odundo awards Davis Gathinji, the 
2nd runners’ up in the NSE 2017 Investment Challenge.
Nairobi Securities Exchange Training & Public Education Manager, Jackson 
Kiminje leads a capacity building training for market participants on Exchange 
Traded Funds.
2.	 Employee Development
In 2017, we continued to invest in our people, ensuring  the highest 
level of ethics, a culture of innovation, and an engaged employee 
base that gives back to the communities in which we operate. 
Our remuneration strategy is continuously evolving to attract 
and retain these skills, and our people development approach is 
to ensure that we build a robust internal skills pipeline that can 
supply the skills that the company needs, now and in the future. 
In fiscal year 2017, we invested Kshs. 11.5 million in training and 
professional development for our people to help deepen skills and 
drive innovation. 
The Exchange signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) 
with Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE) and Nasdaq Dubai to enhance 
cooperation in the areas of knowledge sharing and expertise in 
relation to the development of capital markets, infrastructure and 
products and services between the two exchanges. 
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 45
NSE Staff pause for a photo during the 2017 team building excursion
3.	 Corporate Governance
At the Exchange we believe that corporate  governance  is  key  to 
improving  transparency,  facilitating  the mobilization  of  domestic 
and  international  investment,  creating  a  sound  investment 
environment,  fostering  investor  confidence  and  promoting 
financial  stability. 
The NSE is committed to promoting just and equitable principles 
of trade and sound business practices in the Kenyan capital market 
in line with global best practices. Over the year, we continued 
to ensure that our Board’s and management team’s interests are 
aligned with the interests of our shareholders. 
As a promoter of the Financial Reporting (FiRe) Award, Partner 
Exchange in the UN SSE, a member of the UN Global Compact and 
a signatory to the Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya, we remain 
committed to developing sustainable capital markets that will 
create long term value for all our stakeholders.
Representatives from Sameer Africa Limited showcase their awards after 
the company was named the overall winner of the 2017 Financial Reporting 
(FiRe) Awards.
Barclays Bank of Kenya team pose for a photo during the 2017 Financial 
Reporting (FiRe) Awards Gala Dinner
Auditor General of the Republic of Kenya, Edward Ouko shares his remarks 
during the Financial Reporting (FiRe) workshop on enhancing sound 
corporate governance practices.
4.	 Diversity and Inclusion
A diverse and inclusive corporate climate has been linked to the 
success and long term sustainability of every business. Board 
diversity speaks to the gender, experience, expertise, education 
and age of the board of directors of a company while looking at 
ethnicity, disability and geography. A strong corporate culture that 
invests in diversity and inclusion is one of the greatest competitive 
advantages a company can maintain.
As part of the International Women’s Day celebrations, the NSE 
joined over 40 stock Exchanges globally in the UN SSE Exchanges 
Ring the Bell for Gender Equality initiative. The Exchange held a full 
day diversity and inclusion training for female executives of listed 
companies in Kenya and ‘rang the bell’ to raise awareness of the 
importance of gender equality to both businesses and sustainable 
development.
In 2017, the NSE in association with the Kenya Institute of 
Management (KIM) and New Faces New Voices (NFNV) launched 
the Board Leadership and Diversity report. The report which 
sampled 52 listed companies in Kenya gave critical insights on the 
state of diversity among boards of listed companies. The research 
focused on age, gender and professional background, giving  key 
recommendations on ways of improving diversity among our 
boards.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
46
New Faces New Voices Kenya Director, Andia Chakava (left) joins Nairobi 
Securities Exchange (NSE) Vice Chairman Bob Karina (second from right) 
and Kenya Institute of  Management Executive Director  Muriithi Ndegwa 
(right) in awarding Standard chartered’ s Ass. Co. Legal Counsel, Davidson 
Mwaisaka after the bank was named Best Overall – Leadership Diversity and 
Firm Performance
, 
L-R, New Faces New Voices Kenya Director Andia Chakava, joins Nairobi 
Securities Exchange CE, Geoffrey Odundo in awarding Bamburi Limited 
Director Corporate Affairs, Communications & Sustainability, Susan Maingi 
,during the Board Leadership and Diversity Report Launch.
NSE Chief Executive Geoffrey Odundo (Right) joins New Faces New Voices 
Kenya Director (NFNV) Andia Chakava in awarding Total Kenya Ltd Corporate 
Affairs Manager; Michael O. K’Anjejo after the company was recognized for 
improvement in board and management gender diversity.
(From Left) NSE Chief Executive (CE) Geoffrey Odundo, Kenya Association 
of Manufacturers ,Chair Flora Mutai, UN-Women’s Banu Khan, International 
Finance Corporation (IFC) Rose Lumumba and CMA CE Paul Muthaura, ring 
the bell to commemorate the 2017 International Women’s Day during the 
Ring the Bell for Gender Equality Ceremony.
5.	 Environmental Impact and Community 
Investment
The NSE is committed to developing a vibrant green economy for 
the East African Region. In 2017 the NSE in partnership with other 
stakeholders launched the Kenya Green Bond Programme aimed 
at raising funds for green finance projects in the country. In 2017, 
NSE in partnership with other market players, developed the draft 
guidelines for the issuance of Green Bonds in Kenya.
In 2017, the NSE successfully raised Kshs.10 million during its 
annual NSE Charity Trading day  event which was aligned to the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (particularly no; 15, 4 
and 5) which call for promoting life and land, quality education and 
gender equality. The beneficiaries of the event include; The Borana 
Conservancy - a non-profit conservation organization dedicated to 
the sustainable conservation of critical habitat and wildlife; SOS 
Children’s Village & Joy Children’s Home – committed to creating 
and maintaining a caring and protective environment for children; 
and the Genevieve Audrey Foundation - a foundation committed 
to rehabilitate and provide long term support to sexually abused 
children.
FSD Africa Director Mark Napier, Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) CEO, 
Habil Olaka and Nairobi Securities Exchange CE Geoffrey Odundo pause for 
a photo after signing an MOU during the Launch of the Kenya Green Bond 
Programme
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 47
Television Anchor Betty Kyalo makes a call to an investor during 
the 2017 Charity Trading Day. Funds raised during the day are 
channelled 
towards 
various 
charitable 
causes 
in 
the 
country.
, 
Media Personalities Julie Gichuru (Right) and Betty Kyalo (Left) with 
Apex Capital Dealer Sheema Shah during the 2017 Charity Trading Day
Kenyan celebrities and event sponsors pose for a photo with the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange CEO, Geoffrey Odundo (Centre) at the 2017 Charity 
Trading Day
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued)
6. Cyber Security
As a barometer of the Kenyan economy and the sole securities 
exchange in Kenya, NSE considers security both physical and 
technological, as being of paramount importance to our business. 
We remain committed to protecting our issuers and shareholders 
in the face of growing cyber security risks.
Our cyber security practices, detail the best and most efficient 
ways to proactively identify and remediate security risks, improve 
threat detection across our organization, and expedite incident 
response. We continue to harden data security from top to bottom, 
with the aim of surpassing security requirements in line with our 
compliance standards. 
The NSE has appropriate contingency plans to ensure that key 
operations are resilient. Its business continuity crisis management 
plan will be invoked should an unexpected event occur.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
48
 
VALUE CREATION PROCESS
Funding
NSE PLC’s funding is sourced from shareholders and internally generated income. These funds are used to run NSE’s operations with a 
view to generate profits and include Issued Share Capital : Sh 1,038 million, Share Premium : Sh 277 million and  Retained Earnings : 
Sh 694 million.
Technology
At the core of NSE’s operations is a robust ICT foundation. This comprises two world class trading systems for current and proposed listed 
securities coupled with comprehensive software, hardware and disaster recovery resources. 
Stakeholder Relations
NSE actively engages with its key stakeholder groups.  The NSE Investment Challenge and the annual Charity Trading Day are the flagship 
Community Social Investmentprojects. 
Innovation
Innovation is a core value of the bourse. The firm’s innovative capacity is demonstrated by the design and launch of M-Akiba, the world’s 
first mobile-based Treasury Instrument.
People
NSE takes pride in its talented staff whose aggregated knowledge and experience enable the company to grow and achieve more.
  
 
       50
Average No. 
of Staff in the year
       52%
        Male
    Employees
       48%
      Female
    Employees
Value Creation Schedule 	
  
2017
2016 
Variance
Sh ‘000
Sh ‘000
%
Revenue
 757,032 
 717,185 
6%
Stakeholder contribution
Taxes to Government
 29,789 
 24,641 
21%
Shareholders dividend paid
 66,474 
 92,375 
-28%
Payment to suppliers
 250,701 
 209,248 
20%
Human capital
 201,889 
 209,975 
-4%
Note : Taxes to Government exclude VAT and witholding tax paid for supplier invoices

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 49
 
Derivatives Market
The NSE’s Strategic Plan for 2015 - 2019 sets forth an ambitious trajectory path, which seeks to enhance new listings and products in 
order to take advantage of new growth opportunities not only for itself, but to foster the economic growth and sustainable development 
of Kenya. The NSE has therefore been working on establishing a globally competitive derivatives exchange that will enable the trading, 
settlement and clearing of multi-asset classes including equities, interest rate products and currency derivatives as well as varied forms 
of agricultural commodities contracts.
Through a letter dated December 18, 2014; the Exchange received a provisional license and subsequent extension to a number of explicit 
preconditions to operate a Futures Exchange from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). On October 19, 2015, the CMA pursuant to 
Regulation 10 (1) of the Futures Licensing Regulations approved the grant of a Futures Exchange license to the NSE subject to a number 
of conditions. The CMA had satisfied itself that the Exchange had met the minimum requirements under Section 36A of the Capital 
Markets Act and the further requirements imposed by itself in accordance with Part III of the Capital Markets Act as detailed in Part 
II of the Capital Markets (Futures Exchanges) (Licensing Requirements) Regulations, 2013. On December 11, 2017, the CMA approved 
the commencement of the pilot test phase by the Exchange and market participants. However, a key component towards launching 
the market remains the regulatory approval for clearing members. Towards achieving this, the Exchange has subsequently sought the 
support of the Central Bank of Kenya, cognizant of the banking regulator’s jurisdiction as so far as is required to maintain the efficient 
and smooth functioning of financial markets.
Globally, Derivatives Markets have played an important role in the hedging and price discovery in markets with growing GDPs, instability 
in the pricing of underlying products and volatile rates of inflation. Suffice to say, these economies have enjoyed great benefits especially 
following the development of capital and cash markets. As at the end of the year 2016, the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) 
noted that at the product level, derivatives remain the fastest growing, most dynamic and active exchange traded product, contributing 
slightly below 50% of total volumes traded. During the year 2016, 24.9 billion derivatives contracts were traded globally, representing 
an average annualized growth rate of 2.2% over the prior five years. Since the year 2005, equity derivatives have accounted for over 
50% of total traded volumes while currency derivatives which are widely traded especially in the BRICS economies have experienced 
a Compounded Annual Growth Rate of 27%. Globally, a large composition of the top traded currency contracts are those that track 
local currency dollar exchange rates. It has further been widely noted that the introduction of derivatives, complements spot market 
instruments by improving the liquidity and informativeness of markets.
While project analysis on the establishment of the Derivatives Market returns a favorable Internal Rate of Return, the delayed receipt of 
the necessary regulatory approvals for launch have potentially exposed the Exchange to higher costs. The Exchange however remains 
fully aware that the most economic consideration in the development of new markets is that they must make business sense, there 
must be effective demand for its services (from a broad range of users) and that there must be the ability to supply the services in a cost 
effective manner and within the ambit of a market that has clarity of its rules and regulations. 
DIRECTORS REPORT...CONTINUED
 
MATERIAL ISSUES

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
50
Cash Market
The first pillar of the NSE Strategic Plan seeks to drive revenue growth and diversification. The Cash Markets Section of the NSE is tasked 
with the responsibility of driving revenue growth of the Exchange through the cash markets products. Some of the responsibilities of the 
division include:
1.  Enhancing existing and developing new cash products and markets in a sustainable and profitable way. 
2.  Developing strategies that enhance the growth in new cash products which include REITs, ETFs and Asset Backed Securities.
3.  Growing the supply side through identifying potential issuers, selling the benefits of listing at the exchange and implementing new
     strategic initiatives targeting business growth including, new acquisitions, establishment of new trading platforms and products and 
     increased number of listed companies.
4.  Continuous research in order to identify present and future infrastructure and market challenges as well as develop strategies to 
      address the challenges.
5.  Developing and growing of the data vending concept with the aim of increasing data vending revenues.
6.  Formulation, production, and distribution of all information on products.
7.  Exploring, developing and maintaining strategic linkages with funding agencies and maintain and improve strategic relationships with 
     other Securities Exchanges.
  a)  In the year 2017, the Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) market was launched in March 2017 with the listing of the Barclays NewGold 
ETF. There has been relatively low trading of the product. Currently, the Division is carrying out initiatives to increase activity in the 
trading of the listed ETF as well as increase the number of listings. Some of the initiatives among others include: targeted outreach 
to potential issuers, training and public education, lobbying for policy incentives to make the product even more attractive. ETFs are 
an attractive asset class for conservative investors owing to their limited risk profile and lower volatility.
	
   b)  The current listed REIT ; Stanlib Fahari I-REIT has performed well recording an annual net growth in earnings of 61% in 2017. During 
the year, dividend paid totaled to KShs. 135,729,225 of the net earnings above the required regulatory minimum of 80%. REITs 
remain an attractive channel for capital raising in the real estate sector.
	
      Taxation of SPVs owned by REITs still remains unresolved. Under the current regulations, REITs registered are exempt from 30% 
income. The Law however does not mention the SPVs fully owned by REITs as being tax exempt. Engagements are ongoing with KRA 
on having that aspect clarified by the Tax Authority.
       The NSE has joined hands with other 13 organizations drawn from the REITs industry to form the REITs Association of Kenya (RAK). 
The Association was formally registered on 30th November 2017. The Association will among other things be the voice of REITs in 
Kenya, lobby for policy incentives to promote REITs and carry out training and public education on REITs.
	
  c) The Securities, Lending and Borrowing regulations were issued in December 2017. Currently, engagements are ongoing on the 
operationalization of the SLB and short selling regulations. Once operational, we believe this will go a long way in enhancing 
liquidity in the market.
MATERIAL ISSUES (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 51
Growth Enterprise
Market Segment

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
52
 
NSE STRATEGY 2015 -19
Our Purpose 
Our Goal 
To be the leading securities exchange in Africa, with global reach. 
Our Strategy (2015-19)
To drive market growth and build our reputation as a leading exchange in Africa. 
Our Priorities (2015-17)
            Pillar 1                                       Pillar 2
Drive revenue growth
    and diversification
            
Build reputation as a 
trusted company and an 
investment destination 
of choice
Strengthen organizational
capabilities & talent 
      management
Pillar 3
•   Achieve 40% YoY revenue growth.
•   Achieve 88 equity listings (69 on MMS 
     and 19 on GEMS).
•   Launch and scale new products including
     REITS, ETFs, derivatives (from 5% to 12% 
     of total revenues by 2017).
•   Achieve 40% and 25% CAGR in equities 
     and bonds turnover between 2015 - 2019
•   Launch Technological innovations for day,
     online and mobile trading.
•   Successfully list the Exchange (60%
     float by 2019).
•   Transform the relationship with the CMA
     and Treasury.
•   Develop and execute strategic communication
     campaign on NSE transformation (Q1 2015).
 •   Expand regional amd global engagement,
     including WFE member status, MSCI ranking
      by Q1 2016.
• Invest in key resource gaps.
• Strengthen governance and develop
   full SRO capability by Q3 2016.
• Strengthen our people value and 
   proposition including remuneration 
   and management review.
• Build a culture based on excellence,
   transparency and inclusivity.
 
Our technology
A reliable and innovative technolgy platform that enables and drives growth.
Our culture
A dynamic organization that attracts and retains top talent.
To help stimulate and support vibrant and growing capital markets in Kenya 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 53
 
FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL REVIEW
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
Sh ‘000
Sh ‘000
Sh '000
Sh '000
Sh '000
Summary Consolidated Statement of Profit & Loss
 & Other Comprehensive Income
Operating income
 582,338 
 527,164 
 663,903 
 641,736 
 488,766 
Interest income
 98,569 
 94,766 
 101,010 
 39,514 
 21,420 
Other income
 76,125 
 95,255 
 43,344 
 140,651 
 112,527 
 757,032 
 717,185 
 808,257 
 821,901 
 622,713 
Expenses
 (500,170)
 (487,291)
 (448,323)
 (403,831)
 (257,625)
Share of profit of associcate
 12,324 
 3,221 
 21,560 
 23,741 
 14,407 
Profit before tax
 269,186 
 233,115 
 381,494 
 441,811 
 379,495 
Profit after tax & Comprensive income
 218,806 
 183,754 
 305,653 
 320,067 
 262,792 
Summary Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Total assets
Property, equipment & investment property
 530,238 
 497,638 
 472,074 
 487,276 
 488,790 
Intangible assets
 152,729 
 168,084 
 157,048 
 135,216 
 106,904 
Investment in associate company
 111,374 
 99,134 
 100,703 
 82,457 
 60,940 
Government securities & corporate bonds
 330,619 
 214,730
 125,076 
 192,088 
 192,398 
Long-term restricted investments
 148,391 
 143,204 
 135,921 
 - 
 - 
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
 418,073 
 479,359
 444,035 
 640,655 
 170,048 
Short-term restricted cash & investments
 302,015 
 292,505 
 333,500 
 - 
 - 
Other assets
 114,781 
 119,091 
 149,878 
 147,412 
 130,044 
Total assets
 2,108,220 
 2,013,745 
 1,918,235 
 1,685,104 
 1,149,124 
Shareholders funds
Share capital
 1,038,003 
 1,038,003 
 778,500 
 778,500 
 24,500 
Share premium
 277,185 
 277,185 
 277,185 
 277,185 
 - 
Retained earnings
 694,049 
 547,852 
 718,753 
 486,861 
 705,782 
Revaluation & other reserves
 2,649 
 105 
 319 
 516 
 528 
Shareholders funds
 2,011,886 
 1,863,145 
 1,774,757 
 1,543,062 
 730,810 
Total liabilities
 96,334 
 150,600 
 143,478 
 142,042 
 418,314 
Total shareholders funds & liabilities
 2,108,220 
 2,013,745 
 1,918,235 
 1,685,104 
 1,149,124 
Key indicators
Total dividend declared and proposed (Kshs '000)
 77,850 
 70,066 
 95,366 
 73,957 
 49,000 
Basic Earnings Per Share - Sh.
 0.83 
 0.71 
 1.18 
 2.13 
 2.04 
Dividend Per Share - Sh.
 0.30 
 0.27 
 0.49 
 0.38 
 2.00 
Weighted average number of shares during the year
59,500,791 
 259,500,791 
 259,500,791 
 150,020,604 
 128,625,000 
The current NSE dividend policy provides for a maximum 
dividend payout of 40% of eligible profit after tax as dividend
NSE share price
 Annual High (Sh.)
25.00
30.25
27.50
28.00
-
Annual Low (Sh.)
11.00
12.85
18.00
17.00
-
Share price at year end (Sh.)
19.70
14.65
24.75
20.50
-
	
	
	
	
 Total Income

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
54
Bring your
ambitions to life
Discover Opportunity
Watch your property achieve it’s full potential 
and be part of Kenyas success through the 
support of like-minded investors with NSE Reits. 
Call us today to realize your ambitions.
www.nse.co.ke
T. + 254 (020) 2831000 / 2831241
E. info@nse.co.ke
facebook.com/pages/NSE-PLC
@NSE_PLC
@nse_plc

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 55
The directors present their annual report together with the audited financial statements of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE/the 
“Company”/the “Exchange”) and its subsidiary and structured entities (together, the “Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2017, 
which show the state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
Further to Section 53 of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 and the related Special Resolution passed at the NSE’s Annual General Meeting 
held on 31st May 2017, the name of the Company was changed from the “Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited” to the “Nairobi Securities 
Exchange PLC” and the change effected at the Companies Registry on 22nd June 2017. 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is the sole securities and derivatives exchange licensed by the Capital Markets Authority  of Kenya to promote, develop, 
support and carry on the business of a securities exchange and to discharge all the functions of a securities exchange in Kenya.
NSE Clear Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the NSE. The principal objectives of NSE Clear Limited are to carry on the business of 
a clearing house and as such, to provide clearing and settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether carried out 
on or off a securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative securities transactions and to carry out all activities that 
pertain to a clearing house. The license to operate a derivatives exchange was issued by the Capital Markets Authority to the NSE on 
19 October 2015. No transactions in derivatives were carried out in the year ended 31 December 2017 as the market is expected to be 
launched in 2018.
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) are trusts whose main purpose 
is to strengthen the financial integrity of the derivatives market, ensure settlement of transactions in derivatives securities in case of 
default by a clearing member and satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to 
them by trading members or losses incurred by reason of the default of the trading members. The Board of Directors of the NSE Clear 
Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and IPF who manage and administer these funds. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
The Group delivered on a number of new products and services demonstrating that our growth strategy is resonating well with our 
stakeholders and that we continue to execute correctly. The new products launched in the year were the Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) 
and the M-Akiba infrastructure bond (in partnership with the National Treasury and other stakeholders). In line with our sustainable 
finance agenda, the NSE in partnership with other stakeholders also launched Kenya’s Green Bond Programme.
The Group’s profit after tax grew by 18% from Kshs. 184 million to Kshs. 216 million due to higher operating income which increased by 
10% from Kshs. 527 million to Kshs. 582 million mainly due to higher equity turnover. Interest income increased by 4% from
Kshs. 95 million to Kshs. 99 million due to prudent management of funds and deposits, despite the prevailing lower interest rates.
Administrative expenses increased marginally by 3% from Kshs. 487 million to Kshs. 500 million mainly owing to product development 
and promotion.
Total assets increased nominally by 5% from Kshs. 2,014 million in 2016 to Kshs. 2,108 million in 2017. Shareholder funds grew by 8% 
from Kshs. 1,863 million to Kshs. 2,012 million.
Return on equity increased to 10.9% (2016 – 9.9%) and return on assets increased to 10.4% (2016 – 9.1%) while the cost income ratio 
improved from 68% in 2016 to 66% in 2017.
DIVIDEND
The Group profit for the year of KShs. 216,250,000 (2016: KShs. 183,956,000) has been added to retained earnings. The directors 
recommend the approval of a first and final dividend of Kshs. 0.30 per share amounting to Kshs. 77,850,000 (2016: Kshs. 0.27 per share 
amounting to Kshs. 70,066,000).
DIRECTORS
The current members of the Board of Directors are as shown on page 10.
 
DIRECTORS REPORT

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
56
DISCLOSURES TO AUDITOR 
The directors confirm that with respect to each director at the time of approval of this report:  
a) there was, as far as each director is aware, no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
b) each director had taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director so as to be aware of any relevant audit 
    information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers continue in office in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and Section 721 of the Kenyan 
Companies Act, 2015.
The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditor. This responsibility includes the approval of the 
audit engagement contract and the associated fees on behalf of the shareholders.
By order of the Board
John Maonga
Secretary
19 March 2018 
DIRECTORS REPORT (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 57
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT
Statement of Group’s policy on directors’  
remuneration
a)  Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
The Board establishes and approves formal and transparent 
remuneration policies to attract and retain both executive and 
non-executive Board members. These policies clearly state 
remuneration elements such as Directors’ fees and attendance 
allowances that are competitive and in line with the industry. Non-
Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every meeting 
attended. They are not eligible for provident fund membership. 
The Company does not grant any personal loans, guarantees, share 
options or long term incentives to its non-executive Directors. The 
company has taken out insurance covers for the non-executive 
Directors covering Directors and Officers liability insurance cover 
and group personal accident covering death, permanent total 
disability and medical expenses.
The Chief Executive is the only executive director on the Board 
and the company has in place a remuneration policy which is 
aimed at ensuring compensation is competitive and aligned to 
the company’s strategic objectives. The Executive Director’s 
remuneration and benefits consists of:-
•	
A monthly salary determined on appointment  
•	
An annual bonus based on the performance of the company, 
individual performance and general inflation considerations.
•	
Contributory staff provident scheme
•	
Non cash benefits relating to a company maintained vehicle 
and insurance cover.
There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration 
policy during the year 2017.
b) NSE Clear Limited
A managing director or other executive officer shall receive 
such remuneration (whether by way of salary, commission or 
participation in profits, or partly in one way and partly in another) 
as the directors may determine.
There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration 
policy during the year 2017. 
c) The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
    (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
    (IPF)
In accordance with the Trust Deed of the Funds, the Board of 
Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints the trustees of the Fund 
subject to approval by the CMA. The number of trustees is set at 
a minimum of Three (3).  Any person, whether or not domiciled, 
resident or carrying on business or in the case of a body corporate 
carrying on business in Kenya may be appointed and hold office 
as a trustee.
There were no substantial changes to the trustees’ remuneration 
policy during the year 2017.
Contract of service
  a) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
In accordance with Article 93 of the Articles  of Association of the 
Company, unless and until otherwise from time to time determined 
by an ordinary resolution of the Company, but always subject to the 
provisions of the Kenyan Companies Act (the Act) and the Capital 
Markets Act (CMA) regulations, the number of Directors (including 
the Chief Executive and excluding alternates) shall not be less than 
Seven (7) and not more than Eleven (11) in number and shall be 
elected in accordance with the Act, the Capital Markets Act and 
the Company’s Articles of Association. 
Two Directors are elected by the members from among or to 
represent the trading participants and a further two Directors 
are elected by the members from among nominees of companies 
listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange to represent the said 
listed companies. Any other directors are elected by the members 
in accordance with the Companies Act provided that at all times at 
least one third of the Directors must be non-executive Directors.
If at any time the number of Directors falls below the minimum 
number fixed by or in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association, the remaining Directors may act for the purpose of 
convening a general meeting or for the purpose of bringing the 
number of Directors to such minimum, and for no other purpose
The Non-Executive Directors are not under contract but are 
subject to retirement by rotation at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM). CMA regulations provide for fixed terms of office for the 
company’s Chairman and Chief Executive, which shall include a 
maximum term of office of two consecutive years for the Chairman 
and four years renewable once for the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive’s current contract is for a Four (4) year period 
running from 1 March 2015. Under the terms of the contract, 
either party may, not less than six months to the expiry of this 
contract, notify the other of their intention not to extend the 
contract, otherwise the contract shall be automatically renewed 
for a further final period of four years. Either Party may also 
terminate the Agreement without assigning any reasons, at any 
time, by giving to the other not less than six months’ notice in 
writing, or six months’ salary in lieu of notice, at the end of which 
the Agreement shall determine. 
  b) NSE Clear Limited
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association (the 
Articles), the directors have power at any time, and from time to 
time, to appoint any person to be a director, either to fill a casual 
vacancy, or as an addition to the existing directors, but so that the 
total number of directors shall not at any time exceed the number 
fixed in accordance with the Articles. Any director so appointed 
shall hold office until he is removed or his office is vacated, in each 
case in accordance with these Articles.
 
DIRECTORS’  
REMUNERATION REPORT

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
58
Contract of Service (continued)
 b) NSE Clear Limited (continued)
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of their 
body to the office of managing director, or to any other executive 
office under the Company, for such period and on such terms as 
they think fit, and, subject to the terms of any agreement entered 
into in any particular case, may revoke such appointment. The 
appointment of such managing director or other executive officer 
shall be automatically determined if he ceases from any cause to 
be a director. 
Other than the Managing Director, the Directors are subject to 
retirement by rotation at every Annual General Meeting (AGM).
 c) The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
    (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection
    Fund (IPF)
The Trustees are not under contract. The office of a trustee 
becomes vacant if: the trustee resigns with a one month’s notice; 
becomes mentally or physically incapacitated; or by removal by 
the Board of NSE Clear Limited by a resolution.  A trustee can also 
retire at any time by giving a three (3) months written notice to the 
Board. In the event of the number of trustees falling below three, 
the Board shall, subject to the approval of the CMA, appoint such 
additional trustees as shall be necessary to make their number 
upto three, save where there is appointed a sole corporate trustee.
Statement of voting on the Directors’ remunera-
tion report at the Previous Annual General Meet-
ing  
a) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
During the Annual General Meeting held on 31st May 2017, the 
shareholders approved the fees paid to the Directors fees for the 
year ended 31st December 2016 by show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30th May 2018, 
approval will be sought from shareholders for the fees paid to the 
Directors for the financial year ended 31st December 2017.
b) NSE Clear Limited 
During the Annual General Meeting held on 23rd May 2017, the 
shareholders approved the fees paid to the Directors for the year 
ended 31st December 2016 by show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17th May 2018, 
approval will be sought from shareholders for the fees paid to the 
Directors for the financial year ended 31st December 2017.
c) The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
    (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund  
The Funds do not hold annual general meetings. The fees for the 
Trustees are approved by the NSE Clear Limited Board.
	
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued)
Directors’/Trustees remuneration
Below is a summary of entitlement per Board/Trustee member:
Type of payment	 	
	
	
	
 Chairman	
     Vice Chairman	                               Non-Executive 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
                               Director/Trustee
NSE  
Director’s fees per annum	
	
	
	
Sh  714,286	
           Sh 571,429	                                           Sh 428,571
Sitting allowance – per Board meeting	
	
Sh    94,286	
           Sh   78,571	                                           Sh   78,571
Sitting allowance - per Committee meeting	
	
Sh    28,571	
           Sh   28,571	                                           Sh   28,571
NSE Clear Limited 
Sitting allowance - per sitting	
	
	
Sh    28,571	
	
    -	
                                          Sh   28,571 
 
NSE SGF/NSE IPF 
Sitting allowance - per sitting	
	
	
Sh    28,571	
	
   -	
                                          Sh   28,571	
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued)
(IPF)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 59
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued)
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT
The following table shows a single figure remuneration for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and Executive Director in respect of 
qualifying services for the year ended 31st December 2017 together with the comparative figures for 2016. The aggregate Directors’ 
emoluments are shown on note 29.
Year ended 31 December 2017  
Name
 
Category
Fees
Sitting 
allowances
Gross pay 
plus other 
allowances
Provident 
scheme 
contribution
Total
Sh
Sh
Sh
Sh
Sh
Samuel Kimani*
Non-Executive
 714,286 
 1,031,429 
 - 
 - 
 1,745,714 
Bob Karina*
Non-Executive
 571,429 
 1,092,857 
 - 
 - 
 1,664,286 
Dr. Winnie Nyamute*
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 1,235,714 
 - 
 - 
 1,664,286 
Hosea Kili
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 821,429 
 - 
 - 
 1,250,000 
Sharon Maviala
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 514,286 
 - 
 - 
 942,857 
Jimnah Mbaru
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 342,857 
 - 
 - 
 771,429 
Nasim Devji
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 485,714 
 - 
 - 
 914,286 
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 864,286 
 - 
 - 
 1,292,857 
James Mworia
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 300,000 
 - 
 - 
 728,571 
Paul Vollant*
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 650,000 
 - 
 - 
 1,078,571 
Geoffrey Odundo 
Executive
-
-
 16,537,500 
 1,632,960 
 18,170,460 
 4,714,286 
 7,338,571 
 16,537,500 
 1,632,960 
 30,223,317 
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2017 is amounts relating to fees earned for services rendered 
in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below:
Sitting allowances
Name
NSE Clear
NSE IPF
NSE SGF
Total 
Sh
Sh
Sh
Sh
Samuel Kimani
 114,286 
 114,286 
 114,286 
 342,858 
Bob Karina
 85,714 
 85,714 
 85,714 
 257,142 
Dr. Winnie Nyamute
 114,286 
 114,286 
 114,286 
 342,858 
Paul Vollant
 57,143 
 57,143 
 57,143 
 171,429 
 371,429 
 371,429 
 371,429 
 1,114,287 
Mr Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit). 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
60
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued)
Year ended 31 December 2016
Name
 
Category
Fees
Sitting
allowances
Gross pay 
plus other 
allowances
Provident 
scheme 
contribution
Total
Sh
Sh
Sh
Sh
Sh
Samuel Kimani*
Non-Executive
 714,286 
 1,304,286 
 - 
 - 
 2,018,571 
Bob Karina*
Non-Executive
 571,429 
 1,600,000 
 - 
 - 
 2,171,428 
Dr. Winnie Nyamute*
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 1,400,000 
 - 
 - 
 1,828,571 
Hosea Kili
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 921,429 
 - 
 - 
 1,350,000 
Sharon Maviala
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 1,028,571 
 - 
 - 
 1,457,143 
Jimnah Mbaru
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 557,142 
 - 
 - 
 985,714 
Nasim Devji
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 764,286 
 - 
 - 
 1,192,857 
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 642,857 
 - 
 - 
 1,071,429 
James Mworia
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 678,571 
 - 
 - 
 1,107,143 
Paul Vollant
Non-Executive
 428,571 
 200,785 
 - 
 - 
 629,357 
Edward Njoroge*
Non-Executive
 - 
 482,857 
 - 
 - 
 482,857 
Geoffrey Odundo 
Executive
-
-
 16,537,500 
 1,632,960 
 18,170,460 
 4,714,286 
 9,580,784 
 16,537,500 
 1,632,960 
 32,465,530 
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2016 is amounts relating to fees earned for services rendered 
in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below:
                                                                                 Sitting Allowances
Name
NSE Clear
NSE IPF
NSE SGF
Total 
Sh
Sh
Sh
Sh
Samuel Kimani
 114,286 
 114,286 
 114,286 
 342,858 
Bob Karina
 114,286 
 114,286 
 114,286 
 342,858 
Dr. Winnie Nyamute
 114,286 
 114,286 
 114,286 
 342,858 
Edward Njoroge
 28,571 
 28,571 
 28,571 
 85,713 
 371,429 
 371,429 
 371,429 
 1,114,287 
Mr Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit). 
On Behalf of the board
John Maonga
Secretary
19 March 2018 
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 61
The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair 
view of the financial position of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of its profit or loss for that year. The directors are 
responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of 
the Company; disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company; and that enables them to prepare 
financial statements of the Company that comply with prescribed financial reporting standards and the requirements of the Kenyan 
Companies Act, 2015. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.     
The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act 2015. They also accept responsibility for: 
i.	
Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial 
statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error;
ii.	
Selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and
iii.	 Making judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors have assessed the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and disclosed, 
as applicable, matters relating to the use of going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements. Nothing has come to the 
attention of the directors to indicate that the Company will not remain a going concern for at least the next twelve months from the 
date of this statement.
The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by:
---------------------------------------	
                   ---------------------------------- 	
         ------------------------------------
Mr. Samuel Kimani		
	
                   Dr. Winnie Nyamute	
                   Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo         
Chairman	
	
	
                   Director	
                    Chief Executive 
 
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’  
RESPONSIBILITIES

Report on the financial statements
Our opinion 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE/the “Company”) and its subsidiary and 
structured entities (together, the “Group”) set out on pages 65 to 104, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position 
at 31 December 2017 and the consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash 
flows for the year then ended, together with the separate statement of financial position of the Company at 31 December 2017 and the 
statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company for the year then ended, 
and the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company at
31 December 2017 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are 
further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements 
in Kenya, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key audit matters
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report.
Other information
The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report 
but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover 
the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information, we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this 
regard.
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal control as the directors 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either 
intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
                          
                         PricewaterhouseCoopers CPA. PwC Tower, Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road, Westlands      
                         P O Box 43963 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya      
                         T: +254 (20)285 5000 F: +254 (20)285 5001    www.pwc.com/ke
                             Partners: A Eriksson  E Kerich  B Kimacia  K Muchiru  M Mugasa  A Murage  F Muriu  P Ngahu  R Njoroge  S N Ochieng’  B Okundi  K Saiti
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS  
OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. 
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by the directors. 
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. 
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within 
the Group to express an opinion on the Group’s financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide  the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the 
financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS  
OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC (Continued)

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS  
OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC (Continued)
Report on other matters prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015
Directors’ remuneration report
In our opinion the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 57 to 60 has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
The engagement partner responsible for the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is FCPA Richard Njoroge – Practicing 
Certificate No. 1244.
Certified Public Accountants	
Nairobi	                                                                                                                                                               
19 March 2018 
Report of the Directors
In our opinion, the information given in the report of directors on page 55 to 56 is consistent with the financial statements.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 65
                      Group
                    Company
Notes
2017
2016
2017
2016
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
6
582,338
527,164
582,338
527,164
Interest income
9
               98,569
94,766
         84,358
79,885
Other income
10
76,125
95,255
76,125
95,255
________
________
________
________
Total income
757,032
717,185
742,821
702,304
Administrative expenses
(500,170)
(487,291)
(495,633)
(483,438)
Share of profit of associate
15 (c)
12,324
3,221
12,324
3,221
________
________
________
________
Profit before income tax
7
269,186
233,115
259,512
222,087
Income tax expense
11 (a)
(52,936)
(49,159)
(50,470)
(46,111)
________
________
________
________
Profit for the year
216,250
183,956
209,042
175,976
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Revaluation surplus on buildings
3,093
110
3,093
110
Deferred income tax on revaluation surplus
24
(453)
(22)
(453)
(22)
________
________
________
________
2,640
88
2,640
88
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Share of exchange differences from associate arising from 
translation of foreign operation
15 (c)
(84)
(290)
 (84)
(290)
________
________
________
________
Other comprehensive income for the year
2,556
(202)
2,556
(202)
________
________
________
________
Total comprehensive income for the year
218,806
183,754
211,598
175,774
=======
=======
=======
=======
	
	
                                                                                                        Sh	                 Sh 	
Earnings per share	
 - Basic and diluted                                                                             28                       0.83	               0.71	
                                                                                                                                        ====             ====
	
          	
                                                                                                    
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017
Revenue
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE // 65

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
66
     
                    
Notes
2017
2016
2017
2016
ASSETS
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Non-current assets
Property and equipment
12
229,635
184,164
229,635
184,164
Investment property
13
300,603
313,474
300,603
313,474
Intangible assets
14
152,729
168,084
152,729
168,084
Investment in associate 
15 (b)
111,374
99,134
111,374
99,134
Investment in subsidiary and structured entities
16
-
-
130,000
130,000
Government securities 
18
93,104
96,490
93,104
96,490
Long-term restricted investments
19
148,391
143,204
-
-
_________
_________
_________
_________
1,035,836
1,004,550
1,017,445
991,346
_________
_________
_________
_________
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
20 (a)
92,346
70,921
92,346
70,921
Due from related company
29 (f)(i)
-
-
622
1,259
Current income tax
11 (c)
22,435
48,170
19,695
47,220
Corporate bonds
     17
-
15,281
-
15,281
Government securities 
     18
237,515
102,959
237,515
102,959
Fixed deposits
     21
262,043
-
262,043
-
Short-term restricted cash and investments
     21
302,015
292,505
302,015
292,505
Cash and cash equivalents
     21
156,030
479,359
155,696
478,174
_________
_________
_________
_________
1,072,384
1,009,195
1,069,932
1,008,319
_________
_________
_________
_________
TOTAL ASSETS
2,108,220
2,013,745
2,087,377
1,999,665
========
========
========
========
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
     23
1,038,003
1,038,003
1,038,003
1,038,003
Share premium
277,185
277,185
277,185
277,185
Retained earnings
694,049
547,852
675,890
536,901
Other reserves
(559)
(475)
(559)
(475)
Revaluation reserve
3,208
580
3,208
580
_________
_________
_________
_________
Shareholders’ funds
2,011,886
1,863,145
1,993,727
1,852,194
_________
_________
_________
_________
Non-current liabilities
Deferred income tax
     24
3,496
5,631
4,804
5,891
Tenant deposits
25 (a)
3,830
7,273
3,830
7,273
_________
_________
_________
_________
7,326
12,904
8,634
13,164
_________
_________
_________
_________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
25 (b)
66,939
119,218
65,147
118,029
Dividends payable
     26
19,869
16,278
19,869
16,278
Trading members’ contributions
2,200
2,200
-
-
_________
_________
_________
_________
89,008
137,696
85,016
134,307
_________
_________
_________
_________
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES
2,108,220
2,013,745
2,087,377
1,999,665
========
========
========
========
The financial statements on pages 65 to 104 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2018 and 
were signed on its behalf by:
---------------------------------------	
                ---------------------------------- 	
     ------------------------------------
Mr. Samuel Kimani		
	
               Dr. Winnie Nyamute	
Mr. Geoffrey  O. Odundo 
Chairman	
	
	
               Director	 	
 Chief Executive 
Company
Group
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AT 31 DECEMBER 2017

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 67
Share
Share
Retained
Other
Revaluation
capital
premium
earnings
reserves
reserve
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Year ended 31 December 2016
At start of the year
778,500
277,185
718,753
(185)
504
1,774,757
Profit for the year
-
-
183,956
-
-
183,956
Other comprehensive income, net of 
 tax
-
-
-
(290)
88
(202)
Total comprehensive income for
 the year
-
-
183,956
(290)
88
183,754
Transfer of excess depreciation
-
-
17
-
(17)
-
Deferred tax on transfer of excess depreciation
-
-
(5)
5
-
Transactions with owners:
Bonus issue
259,503
-
(259,503)
-
-
-
2015 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
(95,366)
-
-
(95,366)
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
________
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
547,852
(475)
580
1,863,145
=======
=======
======
======
======
=======
Year ended 31 December 2017
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
547,852
(475)
580
1,863,145
Profit for the year
-
-
216,250
           -
-
216,250
Other comprehensive income, net of 
 tax
-
-
-
 (84)
2,640
        2,556
Total comprehensive income for  
 the year
-
-
216,250
(84)
2,640
218,806
Transfer of excess depreciation
-
-
17
-
         (17)
-
Deferred tax on transfer of excess depreciation
-
-
(5)
-
             5
-
Transactions with owners:
2016 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
(70,065)
-
-
(70,065)
_________
_______
_______
_______
_______
________
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
694,049
(559)
3,208
2,011,886
         
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property.
Other reserves relates to the Group’s share of the translation reserve of the associate.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
68
Share 
Share Retained 
Other
Revaluation
capital
premium earnings
reserves
reserve
Total 
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
 Sh’000
Year ended 31 December 2016
At start of year
778,500
277,185
715,782
(185)
504
1,771,786
Profit for the year
-
-
175,976
-
-
175,976
Other comprehensive income, net of
 tax
-
-
-
(290)
88
(202)
Total comprehensive income for
-
-
175,976
(290)
88
175,774
   
Transfer of excess depreciation
-
-
17
-
(17)
-
Deferred tax on transfer of excess depreciation
-
-
(5)
-
5
-
Transactions with owners:
Bonus issue
259,503
-
(259,503)
-
-
-
2015 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
(95,366)
-
-
(95,366)
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
________
   
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
536,901
(475)
580
1,852,194
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
Year ended 31 December 2017
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
536,901
(475)
580
1,852,194
Profit for the year
-
-
209,042
-
-
209,042
Other comprehensive income, net of 
  tax
-
-
-
(84)
2,640
2,556
Total comprehensive income for 
 the year
-
-
209,042
(84)
2,640
211,598
Transfer of excess depreciation
-
-
17
-
(17)
-
Deferred tax on transfer of excess depreciation
-
       -      
(5)
-
5
-
Transactions with owners:
2016 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
(70,065)
-
-
(70,065)
________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_________
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
675,890
(559)
3,208
1,993,727
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property.
Other reserves relates to the Company’s share of the translation reserve of the associate.
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017   
 the  year

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 69
            Group
              Company
Notes
2017
2016
2017
2016
Sh’000 
Sh’000 
Sh’000 
Sh’000 
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations
27
99,969
220,572
104,541
224,254
Tax paid
11 (c)
(29,789)
(24,641)
(24,485)
(19,616)
________
________
________
________
Net cash from operating activities
70,180
195,931
       80,056
   204,638
________
________
________
________
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property and equipment
12
(40,235)
(41,422)
(40,235)
(41,422)
Purchase of intangible assets 
14
(2,283)
(29,389)
(2,283)
(29,389)
Interest received
98,569
92,825
84,358
77,944
Dividend received from associate 
15 (b)
-
4,500
-
4,500
Proceeds on maturity of  corporate and treasury bonds
15,281
12,911
15,281
12,911
Net (investment)/maturity in fixed deposits
(267,229)
415,323
(262,043)
415,323
Investment in restricted investments
-
(7,283)
-
-
Proceeds on disposal of equipment
32
246
32
246
Purchase of treasury bills
(131,170)
(100,620)
(131,170)
(100,620)
________
________
________
________
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities
(327,035)
347,091
(336,060)
339,493
________
________
________
________
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid
26
(66,474)
(92,375)
(66,474)
(92,375)
________
________
________
________
Net cash used in financing activities
(66,474)
(92,375)    
(66,474)
(92,375)
________
________
_______
________
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
(323,329)
450,647
(322,478)
451,756
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of year
479,359
28,712  
478,174
26,418
________
________
________
________
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year
21
         156,030
       479,359    
     155,696
478,174
=======
=======
=======
=======
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
70
1       REPORTING ENTITY
The Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc (NSE/the “Company”/
the “Exchange”), formerly known as the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange Limited, was incorporated in Kenya under the 
Companies Act and is domiciled in Kenya. The NSE is licensed 
as an exchange by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) of 
Kenya and obtained a license on 19 October 2015 to operate 
a derivatives exchange. The NSE currently has the primary 
market services as a main line of business. The consolidated 
financial statements of the Group at and for the year ended 
31 December 2017 comprise the Company and its subsidiary 
and controlled structured entities (collectively referred to 
as the “Group”) and reflect the Company’s interest in an 
associate company.
2    
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation 
of these financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
a) Statement of compliance 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), IFRS 
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS and the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
b) Basis of preparation 
           i. Basis of measurement 
The measurement basis used is the historical cost basis except 
where otherwise stated in the accounting policies below.
For those assets and liabilities measured at fair value, fair value 
is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. When measuring the 
fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market 
observable data as far as possible. If the fair value of an 
asset or a liability is not directly observable, it is estimated 
by the Group using valuation techniques that maximise the 
use of relevant observable inputs and minimise the use of 
unobservable inputs (e.g. by use of the market comparable 
approach that reflects recent transaction prices for similar 
items or discounted cash flow analysis). Inputs used are 
consistent with the characteristics of the asset/liability that 
market participants would take into account.
Fair values are categorised into three levels of fair value 
hierarchy based on the degree to which the inputs to the 
measurements are observable and the significance of the 
inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety:
         •	  Level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted 
 
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities.
•	
Level 2 fair value measurements are derived from inputs 
other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as 
prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 
•	
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from 
valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or 
liability that are not based on observable market data 
(unobservable inputs).
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are recognised 
by the Group at the end of the reporting period during which the 
change occurred.
ii.	
Use of estimates and judgment 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires the directors to exercise their judgment in the process of 
applying the Group’s and Company’s accounting policies. The areas 
involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas 
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial 
statements are disclosed in Note 4.
iii.	 Adoption of new and revised International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS)
New and amended standards adopted by the Group 
The following amendments have been applied by the Group for 
the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2017:
Amendment to IAS 12 – Income taxes: The amendments were issued 
to clarify the requirements for recognising deferred tax assets on 
unrealised losses. The amendments clarify the accounting for 
deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair 
value is below the asset’s tax base. They also clarify certain other 
aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets. The amendments 
clarify the existing guidance under IAS 12. They do not change 
the underlying principles for the recognition of deferred tax assets:
Amendment to IAS 7 – Cash flow statements: The amendments 
introduce an additional disclosure that will enable users of financial 
statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing 
activities. The amendment responds to requests from investors 
for information that helps them better understand changes in an 
entity’s debt. The amendment will affect every entity preparing 
IFRS financial statements. However, the information required 
should be readily available. Preparers should consider how best 
to present the additional information to explain the changes in 
liabilities arising from financing activities.
The above amendments did not have any effect on the Group’s 
reported earnings or financial statement position and had no 
impact on the accounting policies.
     STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING
    THE REPORTED RESULT OR  FINANCIAL POSITION 
     

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 71
New and revised standards and interpretations which have 
been issued but are not yet effective.
The Group has not applied the following revised standards and 
interpretations that have been published but are not yet effective 
for the year beginning after 1 January 2017:
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, 
measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial 
liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. 
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification 
and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 retains but 
simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three 
primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised 
cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through P&L. 
The basis of classification depends on the entity’s business model 
and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. 
Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at 
fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at 
inception to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling. 
There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces 
the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. For financial 
liabilities there were no changes to classification and measurement 
except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other 
comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair value 
through profit or loss. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge 
effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests. 
It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and 
hedging instrument and for the ‘hedged ratio’ to be the same as 
the one management actually use for risk management purposes.
Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different 
to that currently prepared under IAS 39. The standard is effective 
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early 
adoption is permitted.
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with 
revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful 
information to users of financial statements about the nature, 
amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising 
from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised 
when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus 
has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the 
good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 
‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. The standard 
is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 
and earlier application is permitted. 
IFRS 16,’Leases’: This standard requires that lessees should be 
required to recognise assets and liabilities arising from all leases 
(with limited exceptions) on the balance sheet. Lessor accounting 
has not substantially changed in the new standard. The model 
reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee obtains the right 
to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay 
for that right. In response to concerns expressed about the cost 
and complexity to apply the requirements to large volumes of 
small assets, the IASB decided not to require a lessee to recognise 
assets and liabilities for short-term leases (less than 12 months), 
and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (such as 
laptops and office furniture). The standard is effective for annual 
periods beginning 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted only 
if IFRS 15 is adopted at the same time. 
3  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
3.1 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc and its subsidiary, 
controlled structured entities and interest in associate company 
made up to 31 December 2017. The subsidiary and structured 
entities undertakings have been fully consolidated. 
i. Subsidiary
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over 
which the group has control. The group controls an entity when 
the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its 
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully 
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the 
group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The group applies the acquisition method to account for business 
combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition 
of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the 
liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the 
equity interests issued by the group. The consideration transferred 
includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the 
acquisition date. The group recognises any non-controlling interest 
in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at 
fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share 
of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net assets. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition 
date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest 
in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition 
date; any gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are 
recognised in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group 
is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent 
changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is 
deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with 
IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive 
income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within 
equity. The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of 
any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-
date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over 
the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as 
goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling 
interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less 
than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired 
in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised 
directly in the profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
b) Basis of preparation (continued)
iii. Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) (continued)
 2  STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING
      THE REPORTED RESULT OR  FINANCIAL POSITION 
      (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
72
The Group financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities 
and results of the operations of the NSE Clear Limited, a company 
formed to act as a central counterparty in all the derivative 
transactions. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Details of NSE’s subsidiary are set 
out in Note 16.    
The accounting policies of the subsidiary have been changed 
where necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the 
Group.
ii.	  Structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund and the NSE 
Derivatives Investor Protection Fund are trusts established under 
the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to the statutory obligations 
imposed on the NSE, as a licensed exchange, by the provisions 
of the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 
and clause 1.90 and 1.10 of the NSE Derivatives Rules. Clause 
1.90 requires that the NSE, shall by itself or through a clearing 
house, establish and maintain a Settlement Guarantee Fund to 
strengthen the financial integrity of the derivatives market and 
ensure settlement of transactions in derivatives securities in case 
of default by a clearing member (CM). Clause 1.10 requires that 
the NSE shall establish and maintain an Investor Protection Fund 
to satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of 
non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members 
or losses incurred by reason of the default of the trading members 
up to an amount specified in the rules. 
Management and administration of the assets and operations of 
these trusts is done by a management committee formed by the 
NSE Clear Board of Directors. The Trustees of the funds act as the 
custodians and trustees of the assets of these Funds as defined 
in the trust deeds and rules of these Funds. The Fund’s assets are 
segregated from the assets of the NSE and the NSE Clear Limited 
but are effectively controlled by NSE Clear Limited. The NSE, by 
virtue of its role as the parent company of the clearing house, NSE 
Clear Limited, has to consolidate the results of these funds in its 
annual financial statements. 
The subsidiary and structured entities are stated at cost in the 
separate financial statements of the Company. Separate financial 
statements are prepared for the subsidiary and the structured 
entities, and independent external audits performed.
 iii.	 Investment in associate 
Associates are those entities which the Group has significant 
influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. 
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds 
between 20% to 50% of the voting power of another entity. The 
results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in 
these financial statements using the equity method of accounting. 
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried 
in the statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for 
post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets 
of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual 
investments. Losses of an associate in excess of the Group’s 
interest in that associate are recognised only to the extent that 
the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the associate.
3.2 Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions and any unrealized income 
and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealized 
gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees 
are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups’ 
interest in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the 
same way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is 
no evidence of impairment.
3.3 Foreign currencies
i.  Functional and Presentation currency
The financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are 
measured using the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the entity operates (the “Functional Currency”). The 
financial statements are presented in Kenya Shillings, which is the 
Group’s and the Company’s Functional and Presentation Currency. 
Except as indicated, financial information presented in Kenya 
Shillings has been rounded to the nearest thousand.
ii. Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions that are transactions denominated, 
or that require settlement, in a foreign currency are translated into 
the respective functional currencies of the operations using the 
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated 
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that 
date. 
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year 
end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial instruments, 
such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported 
as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on 
non-monetary financial instruments, such as equities classified 
as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in other 
comprehensive income.
3.4   Revenue recognition
Transaction levy income is based on a percentage of the value of 
shares traded and is recognised on the dates of the transactions.
Initial listing income is recognized in the year in which the 
listing company makes the flotation. Additional listing income is 
recognized during the year in which the issuing company makes 
announcement of the bonus/rights issues.  
Annual listing fee is computed on the basis of the daily weighted 
average capitalisation value of the listed securities for the 11 
months period between 1 January and 30 November.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
   (Continued)
3   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
3.1 Basis of consolidation (continued)
i) Subsidiary (continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 73
Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is 
probable that the economic benefits will flow to the company and 
the amount of income can be measured reliably. Interest income is 
accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding 
and at the effective interest rate applicable,which is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying 
amount on initial recognition.
Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or 
loss on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. 
Management services income is charged to the NSE Clear Limited 
based on direct and indirect costs incurred on staff assigned to the 
NSE Clear Limited and a proportion of office and administration 
overhead expenses.
3.5 Property and equipment
The building is carried at valuation less any subsequent accumulated 
depreciation. Revaluations are performed with sufficient regularity 
to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from 
that which would be determined using fair value at the end of the 
year. The frequency of valuation is annual.
Motor vehicles and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment losses.
Professional valuations on buildings are carried out in accordance 
with the Group policy. The fair value is determined based on the 
market comparable approach that reflects recent transaction 
prices for similar properties. In estimating the fair value of the 
properties, the highest and best use of the properties is their current 
use. There has been no change to the valuation technique during 
the year. Increases in the carrying amounts of property resulting 
from revaluation is recognized in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in equity, except to the extent that it reverses 
a revaluation decrease for the same asset previously recognized 
in profit or loss, in which case the increase is credited to profit 
or loss to the extent of the decrease previously expensed. A 
decrease in carrying amount arising on the revaluation of buildings 
is recognized in profit or loss to the extent that it exceeds the 
balance, if any, held in the properties revaluation reserve relating 
to a previous revaluation of that asset.
Each year the difference between depreciation based on the 
revalued carrying amount of an asset (the depreciation charged to 
profit or loss) and depreciation based on the asset’s original cost 
is transferred from the revaluation surplus to retained earnings.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight line basis to write down 
the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful 
life as follows:
Motor vehicles	
	
	
4 years
Furniture, fittings and partitions	
8 years
Office equipment	 	
	
4 years
Computer equipment                            4 years
Buildings                                                 Over the remaining
                                                                period of the lease
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its 
estimated recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of equipment are determined as the 
difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset at the date of disposal and taken into account in 
determining operating profit. Gains or losses arising from changes 
in fair value of the building are included in other comprehensive 
income in the period in which they arise net of deferred taxes.
3.6 Intangible assets
Intangible assets represent computer software which is stated 
at cost less amortisation. Amortisation is calculated to write-off 
software on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of 
4 – 10 years.
3.7 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the 
carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated and an impairment loss is 
recognized in profit or loss whenever the carrying amount of the 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
3.8 Investment property
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals, is 
stated at its fair value, at the reporting date as determined through 
its revaluation by external valuers on the basis of the highest and 
best use. Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of the 
investment property are included in profit or loss in the year in 
which they arise net of deferred taxes. 
3.9 Restricted cash and investments
The Group classifies all cash, cash equivalents and investments 
that are not available for general use by the Group, either due 
to regulatory requirements or through restrictions in specific 
agreements, as restricted in the accompanying statement of 
financial position.
Short-term restricted cash and investments
As required by the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) 
Regulations, 2015, the Group is required to maintain a minimum 
liquid net-worth capital requirement equal to one half of the total 
estimated operating costs for the next twelve (12) months period. 
At 31 December 2017, this amount was Sh 302 million (2016: 
Sh 292.5 million). The amounts are reflected as short-term 
restricted investments (note 21).
Long-term restricted cash and investments
The NSE has contributed Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million and 
Sh 10 million as seed capital to the subsidiary, NSE Clear Limited, 
and the structured entities, NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee 
Fund and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund respectively. 
These amounts could be used in the event of a clearing/trading 
member’s default where the amount of the defaulting clearing/
trading member’s initial, variation and additional margins a
guarantee fund deposits are insufficient (note 19). These amounts
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   
3  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
3.4   Revenue recognition (continued)
     (Continued)
together with related earned interest are held in bank deposits 
that have been classified as restricted.
        

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
74
3.10  Financial instruments
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following 
categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; loans 
and receivables and held to maturity investments. Management 
determines appropriate classification for its investments at initial 
recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
This category has two sub-categories: Financial assets classified as 
held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit 
or loss at inception. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are those which 
were either acquired for generating a profit from short-term 
fluctuations in price or dealer’s margin, or are securities included 
in a portfolio in which a pattern of short-term profit-taking 
exists. Investments classified as fair value through profit or loss 
are initially recognised at cost and subsequently re-measured to 
fair value based on quoted bid prices or dealer price quotations, 
without any deduction for transaction costs. 
All related realised and unrealised gains and losses are included in 
the profit or loss. Interest earned whilst holding held for trading 
investments is reported as investment income.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable 
payments and are not quoted in an active market. After initial 
measurement at cost, receivables are subsequently remeasured 
to amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less 
allowance for impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees and 
costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. 
Held to maturity Investments
Held to maturity financial investments are those which carry fixed 
or determinable payments and have fixed maturities and which 
the Group has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.  After 
initial measurement, held to maturity financial investments are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method, less any allowances for impairment. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees that are an integral part of the 
effective interest rate. The amortisation and losses arising from 
impairment of such investments are recognised in the profit or 
loss. 
Derecognition of financial assets
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash 
flows from the financial assets has expired or where the Group has 
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities (including borrowings and trade payables) 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. 
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the 
amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest 
expense over the relevant period.  The effective interest rate is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments 
(including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral 
part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other 
premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial 
liability, or (where applicable) a shorter period, to the net carrying 
amount on initial recognition.
Classes of financial instruments
The Group classifies the financial instruments into classes that 
reflect the nature of information and take into account the 
characteristics of those financial instruments. The classification 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
made can be seen in the table as follows:
3   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
(Continued)
Category 
(as defined by IAS 39)
Class and sub class 
(as determined by the Group)
Financial assets 
and liabilities
Financial assets 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets designated at fair value 
through profit or loss:
Quoted shares
Loans and receivables
Long-term restricted investments
Trade and other receivables
Due from related company
Short-term restricted cash and 
investments
Cash and cash equivalents
Fixed deposits
Held-to-maturity investments
Investment securities - debt securities:
Government securities
Corporate bonds
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Tenant deposits
Trade and other payables
Dividends payable
Due to structured entity
Trading members’ contributions

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 75
3.11 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash 
equivalents include cash on hand and demand deposits and other 
short term liquid investments which are readily convertible into 
known amounts of cash and which were within three months 
of maturity when acquired, less advances from banks repayable 
within three months from the dates of the advances.
3.12 Employee entitlements
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they 
accrue to employees. A provision is made for the estimated liability 
for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up 
to the date of reporting.
3.13 Segmental reporting
The Group determines and presents operating segments based on 
the information that is internally provided to the chief operating 
decision maker (Group management). An operating segment is a 
component of the Group that engages in business activities from 
which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues 
and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s 
other components. Costs in the NSE are managed holistically 
across the Exchange and variances against budget are closely 
monitored. Information technology and corporate overheads are 
not generally allocated to a particular segment. 
3.14 Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current income tax 
and deferred income tax.
Current income tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the statement of 
profit or loss and other comprehensive income because of items of 
income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and 
items that are never taxable or deductible.  The Group’s liability for 
current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Management establishes provisions where appropriate on the 
basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the 
computation of taxable profit.  Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences.  
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which those deductible temporary 
differences are utilised.  
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the 
temporary difference arises from good will or from the initial 
recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets 
and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable 
profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying amount of deferred 
tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to 
be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates 
that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is 
settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that have been 
enacted by the end of the reporting period.  The measurement of 
deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences 
that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, 
at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying 
amount of its assets and liabilities.
Current and deferred income tax for the year
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when 
they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and 
deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income.
3.15 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a defined contribution provident scheme 
for all its employees.  The scheme is administered by Britam Life 
Assurance Company (Kenya) Limited and is funded by contributions 
from both the Group and employees. 
The Group also contributes to a statutory contribution pension 
scheme, the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). The Group’s 
obligations under the scheme are limited to specific contributions 
legislated from time to time. The Group’s contributions to these 
schemes are charged to the profit or loss in the year in which they 
relate.
3.16 Dividends payable
Dividends payable on ordinary shares are charged to retained 
earnings in the period in which they are declared. Proposed 
dividends are not accrued for until ratified in an Annual General 
Meeting.
3.17 Earnings per share
The Group presents earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary 
shareholders in the financial statements. Basic EPS is calculated 
by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 
of the NSE by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by 
adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
adjusted for the effects of all potentially dilutive shares.
3.18 Shares reserves and share premium
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
3  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
(Continued)
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a 
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
76
3.19 Minimum liquid net worth requirement 
The Capital Markets (Derivatives Market) Regulations, 2015 clause 
15 (1) and 15 (2) require that a futures exchange have and maintain 
a minimum liquid net-worth equal to one half of the estimated 
gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve 
(12) month period or such other liquid net-worth amount as may 
be prescribed by the Authority. The requirement is met as per Note 
34.
3.20  Comparatives
Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to 
conform to changes in the presentation in the current year.
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, 
management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and 
are based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances.
The key areas of judgment and estimation in applying the entities 
accounting policies are dealt with below:
Taxes
The Group is subjected to numerous taxes and levies by various 
government and quasi- government regulatory bodies. As a rule 
of thumb, the Group recognises liabilities for the anticipated tax/
levies payable with utmost care and diligence. However, judgment 
is usually required in the interpretation and applicability of those 
taxes/levies. Should it come to the attention of management, in one 
way or the other, that the initially recorded liability was erroneous, 
such differences will impact on the income and liabilities in the 
period in which such differences are determined. 
Valuation of financial instruments
The fair value of financial instruments where no active market 
exists or where quoted prices are not otherwise available are 
determined by using valuation techniques. In these cases, the fair 
values are estimated from observable data in respect of similar 
financial instruments or using models. Where market observable 
inputs are not available, they are estimated based on appropriate 
assumptions. Where valuation techniques (for example, models) 
are used to determine fair values, they are validated and 
periodically reviewed by qualified personnel independent of 
those that sourced them. The directors believe that the chosen 
valuation techniques and assumptions used in the valuation of 
its investments are appropriate in determining the fair value of 
financial instruments.
 
Valuation of land and building
The fair value model has been applied in accounting for land and 
building. The Group commissioned external, independent and 
professionally qualified real estate valuers that hold recognised 
relevant professional qualification and have recent experience 
in the location and type of property valued to determine the fair 
value of the property as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 on the 
basis of open market value. The current use of the portion of the 
land and building accounted for as investment property equates to 
the highest and best use.
The valuation of the land and building is derived by making 
reference to recent comparable sales transactions in the relevant 
property market. The Group’s land and building are valued by 
reference to a level 2 fair value measurement. 
5  OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group entities are all domiciled in Kenya. The Group has two 
main business segments:
•	
Cash equities and interest rate market segment comprises 
the equities and bond trading business. This includes other 
income comprising broker back office income, rental income, 
data fees and other incomes; and
•	
Derivatives market segment comprises of the futures trading 
business. No transactions in derivatives were carried out in 
the year ended 31 December 2017 (2016: Nil) as the market 
is expected to be launched in 2018.
Each business segment offers different products and services, and 
is managed separately because each requires different technology 
and a different marketing strategy.
The information provided about each segment is based on the 
internal reports about segment profit or loss, assets and other 
information, which are regularly reviewed by Group management 
(the chief operating decision maker) and the Board. The segment 
results were as follows:
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
(Continued)
4  ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF
    ESTIMATION UNCERTAINITY

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 77
Cash equities and interest 
rate market
Derivatives 
market
Total 
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000 
2017
ASSETS
Government securities
330,619
-
330,619
Long-term restricted investments
-
148,391
Short-term restricted cash and investments
-
302,015
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
	
                 418,073
334
418,407
Other assets
906,048
2,740
908,788
_______
_______
_______
1,956,755
151,465
2,108,220
=======
=======
=======
LIABILITIES
 
Trade and other payables 
93,650
484
94,134
Trading member contributions
-
2,200
2,200
_______
_______
_______
93,650
2,684
96,334
=======
=======
=======
2016
 
ASSETS
Government securities
199,449
-
199,449
Long-term restricted investments
-
143,204
143,204
Short-term restricted cash and investments
292,505
-
292,505
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
478,174
1,185
479,359
Other assets
898,279
949
899,228
_______
_______
_______
1,868,407
145,338
2,013,745
=======
=======
=======
LIABILITIES
 
Trade and other payables 
147,211
1,189
148,400
Trading member contributions
- 
2,200
2,200
_______
_______
_______
147,211
3,389
150,600
=======
=======
=======
Cash equities and interest 
rate market
Derivatives 
market
Total 
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000 
2017
Additions to non-current assets
26,099
5,187
31,286
=======
=======
=======
Non-current assets
887,445
148,391
1,035,836
=======
=======
=======
2016
Additions to non-current assets
6,445
7,283
13,728
=======
=======
=======
Non-current assets
861,346
143,204
1,004,550
=======
=======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
5  OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued)
Statement of Financial Position
148,391
302,015

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
78
Cash equities and 
interest rate market
Derivatives
 market
Total 
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000 
2017
Revenue
582,338
-
582,338
Interest income
84,358
14,211
98,569
Other income
76,125
-
76,125
_______
_______
_______
Total income
742,821
14,211
757,032
Administrative expenses 
(495,633)
(4,537)
(500,170)
Share of profit of associate
12,324
-
12,324
_______
______
_______
Profit before income tax
259,512
9,674
269,186
=======
=====
=======
2016
 
Revenue
527,164
-
527,164
Interest income
79,885
14,881
94,766
Other income
95,255
-
95,255
_______
_______
_______
Total income
702,304
14,881
717,185
Administrative expenses 
(483,438)
(3,853)
(487,291)
Share of profit of associate
3,221
-
3,221
_______
______
_______
Profit before income tax
222,087
11,028
233,115
======
=====
======
	
All revenues are earned in Kenya. There are no revenues derived from transactions with a single external customer that amounted 
to 10% or more of the Group’s revenues.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
5  OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued)
Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 79
           Group 
     Company 
2017
2016
2017
             2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000            Sh’000 
6
REVENUE
Transactions levy
442,342
383,572
442,342
383,572
Annual listing fees
84,168
85,120
84,168
85,120
Initial listing fees
3,300
7,430
3,300
7,430
Application and additional listing fees
1,332
1,809
1,332
1,809
Broker back office subscription
26,078
25,013
26,078
25,013
Data vending
25,118
24,220
25,118
24,220
_______
_______
_______
_______
582,338
527,164
582,338
527,164
======
    ======
======
        ======
7
PROFIT  BEFORE INCOME TAX
The profit before income tax is arrived at after charging/ (crediting) :
Employee benefits (note 8)
183,719
191,805
183,719
191,805
Depreciation of property and equipment (note 12)
23,925
21,595
23,925
21,595
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 14)
17,638
18,353
17,638
18,353
Directors’ emoluments: 
- Executive (note 29(a))
18,170
18,170
18,170
18,170
- Non–executive (note 29(a))
12,053
14,295
10,939
13,182
Auditor’s remuneration 
4,110
4,088
3,001
2,857
Gain on disposal of equipment
(24)
(104)
(24)
(104)
======
======
======
=======
8
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Salaries and wages
164,598
169,763
164,598
169,763
Leave pay expense
2,544
4,869
2,544
4,869
Provident fund contribution
15,869
16,481
15,869
16,481
Social security costs (NSSF)
708
692
708
692
_______
_______
_______
_______
183,719
191,805
183,719
191,805
======
======
======
======
             The staff numbers as at 31 December 2017 were 48 (2016: 53).  
9
INTEREST INCOME
Interest on term deposits
75,255
82,522
61,044
67,641
Held to maturity investments:
- interest on treasury bonds and bills
21,704
10,528
21,704
10,528
- interest on corporate bonds
994
1,279
994
1,279
Interest on staff loans and advances
616
437
616
437
_______
_______
_______
_______
98,569
94,766
84,358
79,885
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
80
               Group
               Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
10
OTHER INCOME
Market access fee
25,100
25,000
25,100
25,000
Fair value gain on investment property (note 13)
13,205
5,769
13,205
5,769
Rental income
20,019
20,698
20,019
20,698
Miscellaneous income
5,328
4,642
5,328
4,642
Training fees
4,724
7,828
4,724
7,828
M-Akiba fees
3,063
-
3,063
-
Sale of publications and merchandising items
2,781
3,650
2,781
3,650
Private transfer fee
862
891
862
891
Nomad fees
575
575
575
575
Exchange gain/(loss)
444
(1,397)
444
(1,397)
Gain on disposal of equipment
24
104
24
104
Gain on disposal of investment in shares 
-
27,495
-
27,495
_______
_______
_______
_______
76,125
95,255
76,125
95,255
======
======
======
======
11
TAXATION
(a)	Taxation charge
Current income tax
Current year expense
55,524
48,914
52,010
45,606
______
______
______
______
Deferred income tax (note 24)
Current year (credit)/charge
(2,120)
245
(1,540)
505
Prior year under-provision on tax losses
(468)
-
-
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
(2,588)
245
(1,540)
505
_______
_______
_______
_______
52,936
49,159
50,470
46,111
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 81
           Group
                Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
(b)
Reconciliation of taxation charge to the expected
tax based on accounting profit
Profit before income tax
269,186
233,115
259,512
222,087
======
======
======
======
Tax calculated at a tax rate of 20% (2016: 20%)
51,902
44,417
51,902
44,417
Tax calculated at a tax rate of 30% (2016: 30%)
2,934
3,308
-
-
Tax effects on expenses not deductible for tax
3,919
5,593
3,919
5,593
Tax effect on revenues not allowable for tax
(5,351)
(4,159)
(5,351)
(3,899)
Prior year under-provision on tax losses
(468)
-
-
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
Income tax expense
52,936
49,159
50,470
46,111
======
======
======
======
(c)
Current Income tax movements
 At start of year
(48,170)
(72,443)
(47,220)
(73,210)
 Charge to profit or loss
55,524
48,914
52,010
45,606
 Tax paid
(29,789)
(24,641)
(24,485)
(19,616)
_______
_______
_______
_______
 At end of year
(22,435)
(48,170)
(19,695)
(47,220)
======
======
======
======
 Made up of:
 Current income tax recoverable
(22,435)
(48,170)
(19,695)
(47,220)
======
          ======
======           ======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
11      TAXATION (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
82
12  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (GROUP AND COMPANY)
 
Building 
Motor
Vehicles
Furniture
 & fittings
Office 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
WIP
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
COST OR VALUATION 
At 1 January 2016
90,372
10,995
71,013
22,797
82,651
104
277,932
Additions
-
-
90
322
11,310
29,700
41,422
Disposals
-
-
(5)
(53)
(523)
-
(581)
Adjustment on revaluation
(3,846)
-
-
-
-
-
(3,846)
_______
______
______
______
______
_______
_______
At 1 January 2017
86,526
10,995
71,098
23,066
93,438
29,804
314,927
Additions
-
4,620
18,579
4,939
4,048
8,049
40,235
Disposals
-
-
(3)
(3,525)
(11,331)
-
(14,859)
Transfer from investment 
  property  (note 13)
26,076
-
              -
-
-
-
26,076
Revaluation surplus
3,093
-
-
-
-
-
3,093
_______
______
______
______
______
_______
_______
At 31 December 2017
115,695
15,615
89,674
24,480
86,155
37,853
369,472
_______
______
______
______
______
_______
_______
Comprising:
At valuation
115,695
-
-
-
-
-
115,695
At cost
-
15,615
89,674
24,480
86,155
37,853
253,777
_______
______
______
______
______
_______
_______
Cost or valuation
115,695
15,615
89,674
24,480
86,155
37,853
369,472
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 2016
3,956
5,562
20,520
14,627
68,898
-
113,563
Charge for the year
-
2,248
8,832
4,141
6,374
-
21,595
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
(5)
(53)
(381)
-
(439)
Adjustment on revaluation
(3,956)
-
-
-
-
-
(3,956)
_______
______
______
______
______
______
______
At 1 January 2017
-
7,810
29,347
18,715
74,891
-
130,763
Charge for the year
-
2,344
9,562
3,735
8,284
-
23,925
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
(1)
(3,525)
(11,325)
-
(14,851)
_______
______
______
______
______
______
______
At 31 December 2017
–
  10,154
38,908
18,925
71,850
–
139,837
________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
NET BOOK VALUE  
At 31 December 2017
115,695
5,461
50,766
5,555
14,305
37,853
229,635
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======
At 31 December 2016
86,526
3,185
41,751
4,351
18,547
29,804
184,164
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 83
12      PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (GROUP AND COMPANY) (Continued)
No depreciation has been charged in arriving at the results for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated equipment with a 
cost of Sh 79 million (2016: Sh 68.6 million) which are still in use. If depreciation had been charged during the year on the cost 
of these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to Sh 19.4 million (2016: Sh 17.1 million).
The building has been stated at its revalued amounts, being the fair value at 31 December 2017 less any subsequent depreciation. 
The revaluation was done on the basis of market comparable approach reflecting the highest and best use by Kenstate Valuers 
Limited, an independent registered valuer.
        
      INVESTMENT PROPERTY (GROUP AND COMPANY)
	
	
	
	
	
	
     2017	  	
	
     2016
	
	
	
	
	
	
   Sh’000		
	
  Sh’000
VALUATION
		
	
	
	
	
At 1 January 	
	
	
	
313,474	 	
	
 307,705
Fair value gain 	
	
	
	
  13,205 		
                     5,769
Transfer to building (note 12)	
	
(26,076)	 	
	
            -
		
	
	
	
	
_______	 	
	
   ______	
At 31 December	
	
	
                300,603	 	
	
 313,474
		
	
	
	
               ======= 	
	
 ======
The fair value of the Group’s investment property at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 have been arrived at on the basis 
of a valuation carried out at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 by Kenstate Valuers Limited, independent registered 
valuers, respectively. The fair value was adjusted for in the books of the Group and Company. The fair value was determined 
based on the market comparable approach that reflects recent transaction prices for similar properties. In estimating the fair 
value of the properties, the highest and best use of the properties is their current use. There has been no change to the valuation 
technique during the year.
The following table gives information about how the fair values of these non-financial assets are determined (in particular, the 
valuation technique(s) and inputs used).
Fair value as at
Fair value 
hierarchy
Relationship of 
unobservable 
inputs to fair 
value
31/12/17
Sh’000
31/12/16
Sh’000
Buildings
129,397
86,526
Level 2
Market 
comparable 
approach - 
Highest and best 
use
N/A
N/A
Investment 
property
300,603
313,474
Level 2
Total
430,000
400,000
             Building valuation includes Sh 13,702,000 costs of the fire exit that is held under WIP.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
13
Valuation
technique(s)
and key inputs
Significant
unobservable
inputs

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
84
14  INTANGIBLE ASSETS (GROUP AND COMPANY)
.
Automated 
trading
system 
software
Other
software
Broker back 
office
software 
Bond 
software 
license
WIP
Total
         Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
COST
At 1 January 2016
61,169
31,038
67,931
38,191
74,712
273,041
Additions
-
87
-
-
29,302
29,389
________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
At 1 January 2017
61,169
31,125
67,931
38,191
104,014
302,430
Additions
-
643
-
-
1,640
2,283
________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
At 31 December 2017
61,169
31,768
67,931
38,191
105,654
304,713
________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
AMORTISATION
At 1 January 2016
57,636
25,118
23,859
9,380
-
115,993
Amortisation for the year 
1,308
2,613
6,794
7,638
-
18,353
_______
______
_______
_______
_______
_______
At 1 January 2017
58,944
27,731
30,653
17,018
-
134,346
Amortisation for the year 
1,122
2,084
6,794
7,638
-
17,638
_______
______
_______
_______
_______
_______
At 31 December 2017
60,066
29,815
37,447
24,656
-
151,984
_______
______
_______
_______
_______
_______
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2017
1,103
1,953
30,484
13,535
105,654
152,729
======
=====
======
======
======
======
At 31 December 2016
2,225
3,394
37,278
21,173
104,014
168,084
======
=====
======
======
======
======
The work in progress relates to costs incurred on futures software and costs incurred to date on the ATS upgrade.
No depreciation has been charged in arriving at the results for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated intangible assets with 
a cost of Sh 86 million (2016: Sh 71 million) which are still in use. If depreciation had been charged during the year on the cost of 
these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to Sh 12.7 million (2016: Sh 10.5 million).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 85
voting power held by NSE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Number of shares held by NSE
@Sh 100 per share
15   INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE (GROUP AND COMPANY)
The investment in associate represents an investment in Central Depository and Settlement Corporation Limited (CDSC). The 
Company held an ownership percentage of 22.5% at 31 December 2017 (2016: 22.5%). The proportion of the voting rights in the 
associate held by the Company does not differ from the proportion of ordinary shares held. 
  (a)
   
Details of the associate at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Country of incorporation and 
Proportion of ownership interest and
       2017                        2016	
2017
2016
  393,750	
          393,750 
 =======                =======	
22.5%
======
22.5 % 
======
The principal activity of the associate is provision of automated clearing, delivery and settlement facilities in respect of 
transactions carried out at the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. 
2017
2016
Sh’000
Sh’000
       (b)
The movement in the balance is as follows:
At start of year 
99,134
100,703
Share of profit for the year
12,324
3,221
Share of other comprehensive income for the year
(84)
(290)
Dividends received
-
(4,500)
_______
_______
At end of year
111,374
99,134
======
======
       (c)
Summarised financial information in respect of the associate
is set out below:
Total assets
531,180
457,610
Total liabilities 
(36,184)
(17,014)
_______
_______
Net assets
494,996
440,596
_______
_______
Group’s share of net assets of associate
111,374
99,134
======
======
Total revenue for the year
335,552
289,571
======
======
Total profit for the year
54,447
13,027
======
======
Group’s share of profit of associate
12,324
3,221
Group’s share of other comprehensive income of associate
(84)
(290)
_______
_______
12,240
2,931
======
======
               Kenya
operation

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
86
16    INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES (COMPANY)
  
2017
2016
  Principal activity
Holding
Sh’000
Sh’000
Investment in subsidiary (note 16 (a)): 
Investment in NSE Clear Limited
  Clearing house
100%
20,000
20,000
_______
_______
Investment in structured entities (note 16 (b)):
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
   Settlement guarantee fund
100,000
100,000
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
    Investor protection fund
10,0000
10,000
_______
_______
110,000
110,000
_______
________
130,000
130,000
=======
=======
         a)  Investment in subsidiary
NSE Clear Limited was incorporated as a limited liability company on 4 February 2014 under the Companies Act (Cap. 486) with 
a share capital of Kenya Shillings One Hundred Thousand (Sh 100,000) divided into One Hundred (100) ordinary shares of Kenya 
Shillings One Thousand (Sh 1,000) each. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. The subsidiary is 
domiciled in Kenya.
The principal objectives of the subsidiary are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to provide clearing and 
settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a securities exchange, to act as a central 
counterparty in derivative securities transactions and to carry out all activities that pertain to a clearing house.
The license to operate a Derivatives Exchange was granted to the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited on 19 October 2015. No 
transactions in derivatives were carried out in the period ended 31 December 2017 as the market is expected to be launched in 
2018.
         b)   Investment in structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under the Trustee 
Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) 
Derivatives Rules. The main purpose of the Settlement Guarantee Fund is to settle specified claims by derivatives members arising 
out of transactions in derivative securities.
	
The NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under the Trustee Act 
(Cap167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015, the NSE Investor Protection Fund Rules and the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) Compensation Rules and Procedures. The main purpose for the Investor Protection Fund is 
to satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members 
or losses incurred by reason of the default of trading members. 
The two structured entities, which are domiciled in Kenya, are managed by a management committee formed by the NSE Clear 
Board of Directors which is responsible for their affairs.
	
	
Investment in the subsidiary and the structured entities are all classified as non-current. None of these financial assets are 
impaired.	
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 87
            Group
                   Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 17
CORPORATE BONDS – HELD TO MATURITY
Housing Finance Group of Kenya Limited
-
15,281
-
15,281
======
======
======
======
Maturity analysis:
Maturing within one year
-
15,281
-
15,281
======
======
======
======
The weighted average effective interest rate on the corporate bonds as at 31 December 2017 was Nil (2016: 8.5%). 
            Group
                      Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES HELD TO 
MATURITY
Treasury bills maturing:
Within three months
176,896
-
176,896
-
After three months to six months
60,619
102,959
60,619
102,959
_______
_______
_______
_______
237,515
102,959
237,515
102,959
Treasury bonds maturing:
After 1 to 10 years
93,104
96,490
93,104
96,490
_______
_______
_______
_______
330,619
199,449
330,619
199,449
======
======
======
======
The weighted average effective interest rate on the treasury bills and bonds for the year ended 31 December 2017 was
10.4 % and 7.9 % respectively (2016: 10.35% and 6.5% respectively).
         Group
                   Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Fixed deposit and interest capitalized held with
the Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited and maturing within 
180 days in the name of:
NSE Clear Limited
20,080
20,601
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
115,791
110,544
-
-
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
12,520
12,059
-
-
________
________
________
________
148,391
143,204
-
-
=======
=======
=======
=======
The restricted investments relate to the seed capital contributions by the NSE on 19 August 2015 to the NSE Clear Limited, 
the NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) of Sh 20 million,
Sh 100 million and Sh 10 million respectively towards their operations.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
19       LONG-TERM RESTRICTED INVESTMENTS
18

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
88
 
                Group
                     Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Receivable from non-trading brokers
154,056
154,056
154,056
154,056
Trade receivables
42,015
33,709
42,015
33,709
Prepayments and deposits
34,947
23,677
34,947
23,677
Due from associate (note 29 e))
1,188
-
1,188
-
Other receivables
14,196
13,535
14,196
13,535
________
________
________
________
246,402
224,977
246,402
224,977
Provision for doubtful debts (note 20 b))
(154,056)
(154,056)
(154,056)
(154,056)
________
________
________
________
92,346
70,921
92,346
70,921
=======
=======
=======
=======
Movements in the provisions for bad debts were as follows:
At start and end of year
154,056
154,056
154,056
154,056
======
======
======
======
The receivable from non-trading brokers of Sh 154.1 million (2016: Sh154.1 million) under note 20 a) represents amounts 
owed by Nyaga Stockbrokers Limited of Sh 121.1 million (on loan issued in 2008 and transactions levy receivable and expenses 
incurred for the year 2008) and Discount Securities Limited of Sh 33.0 million (on loan issued in 2008 and transactions levy 
receivable for the year up to March 2009). The firms were later placed under statutory management by the Capital Markets 
Authority (CMA) in March 2008 and March 2009 respectively. 
The amounts were fully provided for in 2009 and make up the provision for bad debts of Sh 154.1 million (2016: 
Sh 154.1 million) under note 20 b).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (Continued)
20      TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
b)  Provision for doubtful debts
a)  Trade and other receivables

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 89
                 Group
                  Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Call deposits
102,472
4,616
102,472
4,616
Fixed deposits
562,580
700,918
562,580
700,918
_______
_______
_______
_______
Total short-term deposits (note 22)
665,052
705,534
665,052
705,534
Bank and cash balances
55,036
66,330
54,702
65,145
_______
_______
_______
_______
Total bank and cash balances and deposits 
720,088
771,864
719,754
770,679
======
======
======
======
Split into:
Short-term restricted cash and investments (note 34)
302,015
292,505
302,015
292,505
Cash and cash equivalents
156,030
479,359
155,696
478,174
Fixed deposits – maturity of three months to six months
262,043
-
262,043
-
_______
_______
________
________
720,088
771,864
719,754
770,679
=======
=======
======
=======
       22
SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
Maturing within three months:
Fixed deposits
300,537
700,918
300,537
700,918
Call deposits
102,472
4,616
102,472
4,616
________
_______
________
_______
403,009
705,534
403,009
705,534
Maturing after three months to six months:
Fixed deposits
262,043
-
262,043
-
________
_______
________
_______
665,052
705,534
665,052
705,534
======
======
======
======
                  The deposits are classified as loans and receivables, and measured at amortised cost. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
21    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
        AND SHORT TERM RESTRICTED CASH &
        INVESTMENTS

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
90
              Group
                     Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
232,475
277,127
232,475
277,127
Equity Bank Kenya Limited
154,379
242,466
154,379
242,466
Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Limited
146,072
111,393
146,072
111,393
Kenya Commercial Bank Limited
21,369
69,304
21,369
69,304
Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited
5,595
5,244
5,595
5,244
NIC Bank Kenya PLC
105,162
-
105,162
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
665,052 
705,534
666,052 
705,534 
======
======
======
======
The weighted average effective interest rate on the deposits as at 31 December 2017 was 8.4% (2016 : 8.5%).
              Group
                     Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
At start of year:
375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each
(2016: 212,500,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each)
1,500,000
850,000
1,500,000
850,000
Increase in shares in 2016
162,500,000 shares of Sh 4 each
-
650,000
-
650,000
________
_______
_______
_______
At end of year:
375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each
(2016: 375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each)
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
========
========
========
========
At start of year:
259,500,791 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each
(2016: 194,625,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each)
1,038,003
778,500
1,038,003
778,500
Issue of 64,875,791 bonus shares of Sh 4 each in 2016 
-
259,503
-
259,503
________
________
_______
_______
At end of year:
259,500,791 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each
(2016: 259,500,791 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each)
1,038,003
1,038,003
1,038,003
1,038,003
========
========
=======
=======
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Authorized share capital :
Issued and fully paid up :
22          SHORT TERM DEPOSITS (Continued)       
23          SHARE CAPITAL 
The deposits were held at the following institutions

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 91
24
DEFERRED INCOME TAX
Deferred income tax is calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method using a principal tax rate of 20% 
(2016: 20%) except for deferred tax on revaluation of buildings which is calculated using the capital gains tax rate of 5% 
(2016: 5%). The net deferred tax liability is attributable to the following items:
          Group
                         Company
2017
2016
      2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Accelerated capital allowances 
(1,845)
(4,116)
(1,845)
(4,116)
Straight-lined rental income
(1,208)
(1,301)
(1,208)
(1,301)
Unrealized foreign exchange loss
(61)
(50)
(61)
(50)
Revaluation surplus on buildings 
(619)
(166)
(619)
(166)
Leave provision
592
744
592
744
Tax losses
1,308
260
-
-
_______
______
_______
_______
(1,833)
(4,629)
(3,141)
(4,889)
Revaluation of investment property
(1,663)
(1,002)
(1,663)
(1,002)
_______
______
_______
_______
(3,496)
(5,631)
(4,804)
(5,891) 
======
=====
======
======
The movement in the deferred income tax liability
is as follows:
At start of year
(5,631)
(5,364)
(5,891)
(5,364)
Credit/(charge) to profit or loss - (note 11(a))
2,588
(245)
1,540
(505)
Charge to other comprehensive income 
(453)
(22)
(453)
(22)
_______
_______ 
_______
_______
At end of year
(3,496) 
(5,631)
(4,804) 
(5,891) 
======
======
======
======
25
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
a)   Non-current portion
Tenant deposits
3,830
7,273
3,830
7,273
=====
======
=====
=====
b)   Current portion
Accrued expenses
37,013
43,361
35,221
42,172
Trade payables
12,730
14,613
12,730
14,613
Other payables
8,599
12,324
8,599
12,324
Staff leave accrual
2,962
3,719
2,962
3,719
Amount payable to Capital Markets Authority
2,030
2,074
2,030
2,074
Annual listing fees received in advance
1,957
26,850
1,957
26,850
Tenant deposits
1,648
-
1,648
-
Tax penalties payable
-
14,527
-
14,527
Amount payable to associate (note 29 (e))
-
1,750
-
1,750
  _______
_______
  _______
  _______
66,939
119,218
65,147
118,029
======
======
 ====== 
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
92
         Group
          Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
At start of year
16,278
13,287
16,278
13,287
Declared amount for prior years
70,065
95,366
70,065
95,366
Paid during the year
(66,474)
(92,375)
(66,474)
(92,375)
  _______
_______
  _______
  _______
At end of year
19,869
16,278
19,869
16,278
======
=======
======
======
Profit before income tax
269,186
233,115
259,512
222,087
Adjustments for:
Depreciation (note 12)
23,925
21,595
23,925
21,595
Amortisation (note 14)
17,638
18,353
17,638
18,353
Share of results of associate (note 15 (c)) 
(12,324)
(3,221)
(12,324)
(3,221)
Interest income (note 9)
(98,569)
(94,766)
(84,358)
(79,885)
Gain on disposal of equipment 
(24)
(104)
(24)
(104)
Gain on revaluation of investment property 
(13,205)
(5,769)
(13,205)
(5,769)
Working capital changes:
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables
(21,425)
5,711
(21,425)
5,711
(Increase)/decrease in short-term restricted cash and
 investments
(9,510)
40,995
(9,510)
40,995
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables
(55,723)
4,566
(56,325)
4,492
Movement in related party balances
-
97
637
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
Cash generated from operations
99,969
220,572
104,541
224,254
       ======
       ======
======
======
28
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Profit attributable to owners of the Group (Sh’000)
216,250
183,956
======
======
Number of shares at 31 December 2017 (in thousands)
259,501
259,501
======
======
Basic and diluted earnings per share – Sh
0.83
0.71
======
======
The basic earnings per share is the same as the diluted earnings per share as there were no potentially dilutive shares at 
31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (Continued)
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING 
ACTIVITIES
DIVIDENDS PAYABLE
The dividends payable represent the first and final 
dividend for the years ended 31 December 2016, 2015, 
2014 and 2013 respectively not paid at year end. The 
movement in dividends payable during the year was as 
follows:-   
26
27

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 93
The Group and Company are related to various parties by virtue of common shareholding. The shareholders exercise 
significant influence over the operations of the exchange. 
At 31 December 2017, the Group had 10 stock brokers (2016:11) and 7 licensed investment banks (2016:5) who are 
shareholders.  The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
	
        
       Group
            
                  Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
a)   Directors’ emoluments
Non – executive
Directors sitting allowances (including committees)
12,053
14,295
10,939
13,182
======
======     
=====
=====
Executive
18,170
                 
18,170
18,170
18,170
======
======     
=====
=====
                                Group and Company
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
b)   Key management compensation
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits
50,197
53,154
Other long term benefits
4,748
4,984
_______
_______
54,945
58,138
======
======
c)    Transactions with shareholders
The transactions carried out during the year with the brokers and investment banks who are related parties by virtue of 
shareholding are disclosed below:
The Group charges investors, through the brokers, a transaction levy of 0.12% (31 December 2016: 0.12%) of the value 
of equity securities traded at the Exchange.  During the 12 month period, the total turnover was Sh 209,800 million 
(31 December 2016: Sh 175,330 million) resulting in a transaction levy of Sh 252 million. (31 December 2016: 
Sh 210 million). NSE also charges investors, through brokers, a transaction levy of 0.0035% (31 December 2016 – 
0.0035%) of the value of fixed income securities traded at the Exchange. The turnover for fixed income securities for the 
12 months period ended 31 December 2017 was Sh 659,139 million. (31 December 2016: Sh 630,611 million), resulting 
in transaction levy of Sh 23 million (31 December 2016: Sh 22 million).
       Group
                  Company
2017
2016
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Transaction levy on - equity securities
251,760
210,396
251,760
210,396
Transaction levy on - fixed income securities
23,070
22,071
23,070
22,071
Broker back office subscriptions
18,720
15,840
18,720
15,840
Data fee
516
597
516
597
Training
399
591
399
591
NOMAD fee
275
150
275
150
_______
_______
_______
_______
294,740
249,645
294,740
249,645
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
29          RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
94
29
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued)
d) Transactions with companies related to directors 
The Company’s memorandum and articles of association requires that trading participants and listed companies to have two 
representatives each on the Board.	 The transactions listed below were carried out during the period with companies who the 
aforementioned representatives are directors.  
          Group and Company
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
i) Stockbrokers and investment bank representatives
Transaction levy on - equity securities
32,311
34,102
Transaction levy on -  fixed income securities
3,939
3,356
Broker back office subscriptions
2,880
2,880
NOMAD fees
50
435
Purchase of data
12
120
______
______
39,192
40,893
=====
=====
Allowances to broker company directors sitting on Committees but are not Group Directors    
-
457
=====
=====
ii) Listed companies related to directors
Annual listing fees
4,000
3,000
Advertisement
52
52
______
______
4,052
3,052
=====
=====
e) Transactions with associate 
During the period, transactions with CDSC Ltd were as follows:-
Committee sitting allowance paid to CDSC director
-
143
=====
=====
Income: Advertising
52
-
=====
=====
Expenses relating to:
Share registrar services and depository levies
2,973
2,682
Dividend processing	
984
984
Joint Board meetings
-
(52)
______
______
3,957
3,614
=====
=====
Net amounts receivable/(payable) to associate (note 20 a) and note 25 b))
1,188
(1,750)
=====
=====
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 95
29
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued)
f) Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities
    Company
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
(i)   During the period, transactions with NSE Clear Limited were as follows:
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Audit and tax fees
532
776
Secretarial services 
486
520
Market development fees
215
386
Board allowances
371
371
______
______
1,604
2,053
=====
=====
Amounts due from NSE Clear Limited
622
1,259
=====
=====
(ii)	 During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Investor
Protection Fund (IPF) were as follows:-
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Trustee allowances 
371
371
Audit and tax fees
363
377
Secretarial fees
70
109
Income tax 
21
109
Tax exemption application fees
355
-
_____
_____
1,180
966
=====
=====
Amounts due to the NSE Derivatives IPF
-
-
=====
=====
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
96
29
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued)
f) Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities (continued)
Company
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
(iii)	 During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) 
were as follows:-
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Income tax 
3,134
2,603
Trustee allowances 
371
371
Audit and tax fees
363
378
Secretarial fees
70
109
Tax exemption application fees
355
-
______
______
         4,293
         3,461
=====
=====
Amounts due to the NSE Derivatives SGF
-
-
=====
=====
g)  Loans and advances to Executive Director 
At start of year
167
-
Advances made in the year
800
500
Loan made in the year
2,000
-
Repayments in the year
(2,800)
(333)
_______
_______
At end of year
167
167
=======
======
Interest income earned on loan
122
-
=======
======
              The balances are included in note 20 (a) under Other Receivables. The repayment period for the loans and advances are one 
              year and three months respectively. Interest on the loans was at 10% p.a (2016 - Nil). All terms are per company policy. 
 
    
OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY)
The Group and Company as a lessor:
Lease rental income earned during the year was Sh 20 million (2016: Sh 21 million). At the end of the reporting period the 
Group and Company had existing contracts with tenants for the following minimum lease payments:
2017
2016
Sh’000
Sh’000
Receivable within 1 year
14,771
19,445
Receivable after 1 year but within 5 years
24,375
43,710
_______
_______
39,146
63,155
======
======
Rental income receivable relates to the lease rent receivable on the leased areas on the investment property.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
30

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 97
31
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY)
Commitments at the end of the reporting period for which no provision has been made in these financial statements:
2017
2016
Sh’000
Sh’000
Authorised but not yet contracted for
127,031
173,038
======
======
The capital commitments relate mainly to balances on ATS implementation, property improvements and other system 
infrastructure and support.
32       RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The main business risks faced by the Group and the Company in respect of its principal non-derivative financial instruments are 
market risk including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The directors review and determine 
policies for managing these risks.
(a) Market risk
The Group and the Company maintains a conservative policy regarding currency and interest rate risks and does not engage 
in speculation in the markets.  In addition, the Group and the Company do not speculate or trade in derivative financial 
instruments.
 (i) Interest rate risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company’s investment in interest earning investments are at fixed rate hence there is no interest rate risk.
Further, interest earning investments are not fair valued and therefore, fair value interest rate risk does not arise.
(ii) Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company undertake certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, exposures to exchange 
rate fluctuations arise. Exchange rate exposures are however minimal as these only relate to income from data and interest 
income. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
98
32   RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)
a) Market risk (continued)
(ii) Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company) (continued)
At 31 December, the carrying amounts of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are as follows:
2017
2016
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Assets
Cash and bank balances
1,879
7,134
Trade receivables
375
747
Fixed deposit
25,364
38,972
_______
_______
27,618
46,853
Liabilities
Trade payables
(1,784)
(8,424)
_______
_______
Net position
25,834
38,429
======
======
At 31 December 2017, if the Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US Dollar with all other variables held 
constant, the impact on pretax profit for the period would have been Sh 2,583,000 (2016: Sh 3,843,000) higher/lower mainly as a 
result of translation of US dollar denominated balances.
 (iii) Price risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company do not hold investments that would be subject to price risk; hence this risk is not relevant.
b)  Credit risk (Group and Company)
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group 
and the Company. Credit risk arises from deposits with banks, as well as trade receivables.  Management assesses the credit quality 
of each customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors. The credit risk on liquid funds is 
limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by the banking regulatory authority.
Bank balances and term deposits are fully performing. Balances under the fully performing category are expected to be recovered 
in full as the debtors are paying their debts as they continue trading. Balances in the past due category are partly impaired. 
Balances under the impaired category are long overdue debts that have been fully provided for. 
The Group and Company do not hold collateral or security to mitigate credit risk.
The amount that best represents the Group and Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 
is made up as follows:
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  // 99
32   RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES  (Continued)
 (b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued)
On balance sheet
2017
2016
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
Corporate bonds
-
15,281
Government securities
330,619
199,449
Long-term restricted investments
148,391
143,204
Net trade receivables
42,015
33,709
Other receivables
14,196
13,535
Short-term restricted cash and investments
302,015
292,505
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
418,073
479,359
Due from associate
1,188
-
________
________
1,256,497
1,177,042
=======
=======
Company
Corporate bonds
-
15,281
Government securities
330,619
199,449
Net trade receivables
42,015
33,709
Other receivables
14,196
13,535
Short-term restricted cash and investments
302,015
292,505
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
417,729
478,174
Due from associate
1,188
-
________
________
1,107,762
1,032,653
=======
=======
          The above represents the worst case scenario of credit exposure for both years.
         Classification of trade receivables
Fully 
performing
Impaired
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group and Company
31 December 2017
Due from non-trading brokers
-
154,056
154,056
Trade receivables
42,015
-
42,015
Provision
-
(154,056)
(154,056)
_______
________
_______
42,015
-
42,015
=======
=======
======
31 December 2016
Due from non-trading brokers
-
154,056
154,056
Trade receivables
33,709
-
33,709
Provision
-
(154,056)
(154,056)
_______
________
_______
33,709
-
33,709
=======
=======
======
There are no past due but not impaired trade receivables.
Other financial assets: None of the other financial assets are past due or impaired. These balances are mainly government securities 
or balances with reputable financial institutions.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
100
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  // 100
32   RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)
	
c) Liquidity risk (Group and Company)
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash to meet the Group and Company’s obligations.  The 
Group and Company manage this risk by maintaining adequate cash balances in the bank, banking facilities and by continuously 
monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. 
The table below analyses the Group and Company’s financial liabilities that will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity 
grouping’s based on the remaining period at the reporting period to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the 
table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the 
impact of discounting is not significant.
Group
Up to 1 year
1 - 5 years
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
At 31 December 2017 
Financial assets
Government securities
237,515
93,104
330,619
Long-term restricted investments
-
148,391
148,391
Short-term restricted cash and investments
302,015
-
302,015
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
418,073
-
418,073
Trade receivables
42,015
-
42,015
Other receivables
14,196
-
14,196
Due from associate
1,188
-
1,188
_______
_______
_______
1,015,002
241,495
1,256,497
________
________
________
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
1,648
3,830
5,478
Trade and other payables
62,329
-
62,329
Dividends payable
19,869
-
19,869
Investor Protection Fund/trading member contributions
2,200
-
2,200
_______
_______
_______
86,046
3,830
89,876
________
________
________
Liquidity surplus
928,956
237,665
1,166,621
=======
=======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  // 101
32    RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)	
 c) Liquidity risk (Group and Company) (continued)
Group
Up to 1 year
1 – 5 years
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
At 31 December 2016
Financial assets
Corporate bonds
15,281
-
15,281
Government securities
102,959
96,490
199,449
Long-term restricted investments
-
143,204
143,204
Short-term restricted cash and investments
292,505
-
292,505
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
479,359
-
479,359
Trade receivables
33,709
-
33,709
Other receivables
13,535
-
13,535
________
________
________
937,348
239,694
1,177,042
________
________
________
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
7,273
7,273
Trade and other payables
115,499
-
115,499
Dividends payable
16,278
-
16,278
Investor Protection Fund/trading member contributions
2,200
-
2,200
________
________
_______
133,977
7,273
141,250
________
________
_______
Liquidity surplus
803,371
232,421
1,035,792
=======
=======
=======
Company
At 31 December 2017
Financial assets
Government securities
237,515
93,104
330,619
Short-term restricted cash and investments
302,015
-
302,015
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
417,729
-
417,729
Trade receivables
42,015
-
42,015
Other receivables
14,196
-
14,196
Due from associate
1,188
-
1,188
________
________
________
1,014,658
93,104
1,107,762
________
________
________
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
1,648
3,830
5,478
Trade and other payables
60,537
-
60,537
Dividends payable
19,869
-
19,869
________
________
_______
82,054
3,830
85,884
________
________
________
Liquidity surplus
932,604
89,274
1,021,878
=======
=======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
102
32   RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)	
 c) Liquidity risk (Group and Company)  (continued)
Company
Up to 1 year
1 – 5 years
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
At 31 December 2016
Financial assets
Corporate bonds
15,281
-
15,281
Government securities
102,959
96,490
199,449
Trade receivables
33,709
-
33,709
Short-term restricted cash and  investments
292,505
-
292,505
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
478,174
-
478,174
Other receivables
13,535
-
13,535
________
________
_______
936,163
96,490
1,032,653
________
________
_______
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
7,273
7,273
Trade and other payables
114,310
-
114,310
Dividends payable
16,278
-
16,278
________
________
_______
130,588
7,273
137,861
________
________
_______
Liquidity surplus
805,575
89,217
894,792
=======
=======
======
(d)   Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
IFRS 7 specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether inputs used in the valuation techniques of financial 
instruments are observable or unobservable. Financial instruments are grouped into 3 levels based on the degree to which fair 
value data / input is observable.
  i)   Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active trading markets for identical assets 
       or liabilities. This level includes Corporate bonds traded on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (“NSE”).
ii)  Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or 
      liability, either directly (i.e. as a price) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Input data for this category is sourced mainly from
      the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The external valuation of buildings and investment property has been performed using a sales
     comparison.
iii)  Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs that are not based on         
      observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
There are no financial assets carried at fair value (2016: nil).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  // 102 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  // 103
32     RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)	
         d) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (continued)
The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried at fair value by level the fair 
value hierarchy. 
Group
2017
2016
Sh’000
Sh’000
Level 1
Financial assets
Government securities – held to maturity
323,122
199,449
=======
=======
Level 2
Financial assets
Corporate bonds
-
15,281
Long-term restricted investments
148,391
143,204
Short-term restricted cash and  investments
302,015
292,505
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
418,073
479,359
________
________
868,479
930,349
=======
=======
Company
Level 1
Financial assets
Government securities – held to maturity
323,122
199,449
=======
=======
Level 2
Financial assets
Corporate bonds
-
15,281
Short-term restricted cash and investments
302,015
292,505
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
417,729
478,174
________
________
719,744
785,960
=======
=======
There were no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 in the period and for level 3, there was no movement.
i)   Level 1 – We have determined the fair value using quoted prices (unadjusted) from the Nairobi Securities Exchange.
ii)   Level 2 – The fair value of these balances is equal to their amortised cost.
33     CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (GROUP AND COMPANY)
The Group and Company manage its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. At 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, 
the Group and Company did not have any borrowings.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
104
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
                                                                                                                      	
 34       MINIMUM LIQUID NET-WORTH RQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                Estimated twelve months operating costs	
	
	
	
   604,029	
  585,009	
            	 	
	
	
	
	
	
                                                                  =======                ======
	
 Required minimum liquid net-worth at one half of estimated 
	
 operating costs	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   302,015	
  292,505
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  =======	
 =======
	
 Cash and cash equivalents and fixed deposits      	
	
	
   417,739	
  478,174
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 =======                 ======
 
To ensure that there is no significant risk that liabilities may not be met as they fall due, the Capital Markets (Derivatives 
Markets) Regulations, 2015 requires a futures exchange to maintain minimum liquid net-worth requirements equal to one 
half of the estimated gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve (12) month period or such other liquid 
net-worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. This has been met based on the above.
                 2016
             Sh ‘000  
(COMPANY)
                 2017
             Sh ‘000  

NOTICE is hereby given that the 64th Annual General Meeting of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) will be held at the Kenyatta 
International Convention Centre (KICC), Amphitheatre, Nairobi, on Wednesday, 30 May 2018 at 11.00 a.m. to transact the following 
business:-
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
To read the notice convening the meeting, table the proxies received and confirm the presence of a quorum.
2.	
To confirm and adopt the minutes of the 63rd Annual General Meeting held on 31 May 2017.
3.	
To receive the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Report.
4.	
To receive, consider and, if thought fit, adopt the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 together 
with the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
5.	
To approve a first and final dividend of Kshs. 0.30 per ordinary share in respect of the Financial Year ended 31 December 2017 
and to approve the closure of the Register of Members at the close of business on 30 May 2018 for the purpose of determining 
the qualifying members entitled to dividends. 
6.	
To approve the Remuneration Policy of the Company as detailed in the Annual Report for the Financial Year ended 31 December 
2017.
7.	
To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board as detailed in the Annual Report for the Financial Year ended 31 December 2017.
8.	
Election of Directors :
a) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Michael Turner (a Non-Executive Director)
    retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election;
b) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mrs. Nasim Devji (a Director representing the
    Listed Companies) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers herself for re-election.
c) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Jimnah Mbaru (a Director representing
    the Trading Participants) retires by rotation and, having attained the age of seventy in terms of Clause 2.5.1 of the Code of 
    Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public, 2015, does not offer himself for re-election;
d) In accordance with Clause 2.4.2 of the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public, 2015,
    Dr. Winnie Nyamute, (an Independent Non-Executive Director), having served for nine years, retires from the Board at 
    the conclusion of the 64th Annual General Meeting.
e) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. James Mworia (a Director representing the
    Listed Companies) retires by rotation and, although eligible, does not offer himself for re-election.
 
9.      In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015, the following directors, being members of the Board
         Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee be elected individually to continue serving as members of the said Committee:
         a) Mr. Hosea Kimutai Kili    b) Mrs. Nasim Devji 
     
10.   To re-appoint Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) as the auditors of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section
        721 of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorize the Directors to fix the Auditors’ remuneration for the ensuing Financial Year in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 724 of the Companies Act, 2015.
ANY OTHER BUSINESS
11.   To consider any other business of which due notice has been received.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
J L G MAONGA
COMPANY SECRETARY
DATE 4 May 2018
  
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
Discover Opportunity
NOTICE OF THE 64TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

Note:
1.     In accordance to Section 298 of the Companies Act, 2015, a member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint 
a proxy to attend and vote on his or her behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A Proxy Form may be obtained from 
the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke, the Registered Office of the Company, Exchange Building, 5th Floor, 55 Westlands Road, P O 
Box 43633 – 00100, Nairobi, or from the offices of the Company’s Share Registrars, CDSC Limited, Nation Centre, 10th Floor, Kimathi 
Street, Nairobi; Email: registrar@cdsckenya.com.
        
       To be valid, a Proxy Form must be duly completed by the member and must be returned to the Shares Registrar on the above address 
so as to arrive not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, failing which,it will be invalid. In the case of a corporate 
body, the Proxy Form must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of duly authorised officers or an attorney of such 
corporation.
2.    In accordance with Article 159 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a copy of the entire Annual Report and Accounts may 
be viewed at the Company’s website at www.nse.co.ke.  
 3. In accordance with Article 96 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a person seeking election at the Annual General 
Meeting should deliver to the Company Secretary at least seven (7) days prior to the day of the meeting, notice in writing signed by 
a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person for election and notice in 
writing signed by the person to be proposed, of his willingness to be elected as per the nomination papers, which may be accessed 
on the Company’s website at www.nse.co.ke. 
Nairobi Securities Exchange  |  55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA 
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007  |  info@nse.co.ke  |  www.nse.co.ke
NOTICE OF THE 64TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  (Continued)

 I/ We,……….................…...................……., of……………………….....….....…….., being a shareholder/ shareholders of the above-named 
Company, hereby appoint……………………………….., of………………………………., or  failing him…………...…….……....……... 
of…………………...............… as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company to be held on the 30th  day of May 2018  and at any adjournment thereof.
As witness my/our hand this……………. day of …............……………2018
	
	
	
Signed…………………………………………..                  
	
Signed…………………………………………..
This Form is to be used *in favour of/against the resolutions. Unless otherwise instructed, the proxy will vote as he thinks fit.
*Strike out whichever is not desired.
Note:
i) To be valid, a Form of Proxy must be duly completed by the member and must be returned to the Shares Registrars CDSC Limited,
   Nation Centre, 10th Floor, Kimathi Street, Nairobi; Email: registrar@cdsckenya.com so as to arrive not later than 48 hours before 
   the time fixed for the meeting, failing which, it will be invalid. 
                
ii)  In the case of a corporate body, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal.
Nairobi Securities Exchange  |  55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA 
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007  |  info@nse.co.ke  |  www.nse.co.ke
Discover Opportunity
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
PROXY FORM


NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  //109
NOMINATION FORM FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE 
A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
I/We ……..…………………………………………………of P.  O. Box ……………….………………. being a shareholder(s) of the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of 
May 2018, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to propose …………………………………………...….… of P. O. Box …………....
..................………….................….. for election as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ………………………………………day of ............................................…... 2018.
SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF             	 	
	
)
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
)
_____________________________________________ 	
	
)
                                                                 	
	
	
)
In the presence of:                                   	
	
	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)	
	
SEAL
                                                                  	
	
	
)
DIRECTOR                       ________________________	
	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)
DIRECTOR/SECRETARY   ______________________  	
	
)
PLEASE NOTE :
1) The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC defines “Independent Non-Executive Director”, “Non-Executive
     Director” and “Executive Director” as follows:  
“Independent Non-Executive Director” means a Non-Executive Director who: 
(i)    has not been employed by the Company in an excecutive capacity in the 5 years immediately preceding his appointment      
       as a director of the Company            
(ii)   has not been a director of a Trading Participant in the five years immediately preceding appointment as a director of the
       Company;  
(iii)  has not been employed as a Trading Participant in an executive capacity in the five years immediately preceding appointment 
       as a director of the Company;
(iv)  has no personal service contract(s) with a Trading Participant or with a person who is in the senior management of a Trading
       Participant; is not a director or a member of the senior management of a company listed on the Company’s securities 
       exchange ; or 
 (v)  does not own or hold shares in a Trading Participant.
“Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; 
“Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a   contract 
of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company;
2) To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by
     5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018.    
Nairobi Securities Exchange  |  55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA 
Tel: +254 20 2831000  Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007  |  info@nse.co.ke  |  www.nse.co.ke
Discover Opportunity


NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  //111
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
CONSENT FORM FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
CONSENT TO ACT AS AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
I ……………………...……………………….....………. of P. O. Box ……………………..……………. being the person in respect of whom 
………………………………………….…………………. of P. O. Box ……………………………………....……………….. has given 
notice of intention to propose as a candidate to be elected as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
PLC at the Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2018, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this ………….. day of ....................................................., 2018.
...................................................................................
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1)  Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows: 
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless 
not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been 
delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a Shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting 
for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to 
be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
“Independent Non-Executive Director” means a Non-Executive Director who: 
(i)    has not been employed by the Company in an excecutive capacity in the 5 years immediately preceding his appointment      
       as a director of the Company            
(ii)   has not been a director of a Trading Participant in the five years immediately preceding appointment as a director of the
       Company;  
(iii)  has not been employed as a Trading Participant in an executive capacity in the five years immediately preceding appointment 
       as a director of the Company;
(iv)  has no personal service contract(s) with a Trading Participant or with a person who is in the senior management of a Trading
       Participant; is not a director or a member of the senior management of a company listed on the Company’s securities 
       exchange ; or 
 (v)  does not own or hold shares in a Trading Participant.
“Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; 
“Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a   contract 
of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company;
2)   To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 
       5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018.    
Nairobi Securities Exchange  |  55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA 
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007  |  info@nse.co.ke  |  www.nse.co.ke
Discover Opportunity

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
112

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  //113
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS A 
TRADING PARTICIPANT & NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
 
I/we ………………………………………………………of P. O. Box ………………..………………. being a shareholder(s) of Nairobi 
Securities  Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of 
May 2018, do hereby give notice of our intention to propose ………………………………………………………..…………………………
…….…...….… of P.O. Box …………......................………..….................….. for election as a Trading Participant & Non-Executive Director 
of the Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ………………………………………… day of……………………………, 2018.
SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF             	                                  )
)
__________________________________________	
                 )
                                                                 	
	
	
)
In the presence of:                                   	
	
	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)	
	
SEAL
                                                                  	
	
	
)
DIRECTOR                   	
 _______________________     	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)
DIRECTOR/SECRETARY              ____________________    	                )
PLEASE NOTE:
1)  The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC defines a “Trading Participant” as a licensee of the CMA with Rights to  
     Trade at the Nairobi Securities Exchange;
2)  Article 93 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides that:- 
    “A maximum of two (2) Directors shall be elected by the members from among or to represent the Trading Participants.”
3)  To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 
      5.00 pm Tuesday, 22 May 2018. 
 
Nairobi Securities Exchange  |  55 Westlands Road, P.O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA 
 Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007  |  info@nse.co.ke  |  www.nse.co.ke
NOMINATION FORM FOR TRADING PARTICIPANT
Discover Opportunity

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017
PAGE  //
114

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  //115
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
CONSENT TO ACT AS A TRADING PARTICIPANT & NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
I……………………...…………………….....………. of P. O. Box ………………………………. being the person in respect of whom 
………………………………………….…………………. of P. O. Box ……………………………………....……………….. has given  
notice of intention to propose as a candidate to be elected as a Trading Participant & Non-Executive Director of the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange PLC at the Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2018, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so 
elected.
SIGNED this ………….. day of ....................................................., 2018.
....................................................................................
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1)   Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows: 
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless 
not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been 
delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting 
for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person 
to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
2)   The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC defines “Non-Executive Director”, “Executive Director” and 
      “Trading Participant”  as follows:  
    
       “Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; 
“Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a   contract 
of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company;
“Trading Participant” means a licensee of the CMA with Rights to Trade at the Nairobi Securities Exchange; 
3)   To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 
       5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018. 
Nairobi Securities Exchange  |  55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA 
 Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007  |  info@nse.co.ke  |  www.nse.co.ke
CONSENT FORM FOR TRADING PARTICIPANT
Discover Opportunity


NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  //117
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS A 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING LISTED COMPANIES
I/We ………………………………………………………of P. O. Box ………………..………………. being a shareholder(s) of Nairobi 
Securities  Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of 
May 2018, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to propose ………………………………………………………..…………...….… of 
P. O. Box …………......................………..….................….. for election as a Non-Executive Director representing listed companies in the 
Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ………………………………………… day of……………………………, 2018.
SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF                   	
	
)
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
)
__________________________________________	
	
)
                                                                 	
	
	
)
In the presence of:                                   	
	
	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)	
	
SEAL
                                                                  	
	
	
)
DIRECTOR                        _______________________    	
 	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)
                                                                  	
	
	
)
DIRECTOR/SECRETARY   ____________________   	
	
)
PLEASE NOTE:
1)   Article 93 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides that: 
“… two Directors shall be elected by the members from among nominees of companies listed on the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange to represent the listed companies.”
     “Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; 
“Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a   contract 
of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company;
2)   To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by
       5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018. 
    
Nairobi Securities Exchange  |  55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
 Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007  |  info@nse.co.ke  |  www.nse.co.ke
NOMINATION FORM FOR LISTED COMPANIES 
Discover Opportunity
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC


NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
CONSENT TO ACT AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING
LISTED COMPANIES 
I ……………………...…………………….....………. of P. O. Box ………………………………. being the person in respect of whom 
………………………………………….…………………. of P. O. Box ……………………………………....……………….. has given 
notice of intention to propose as a candidate to be elected as a Non-Executive Director representing listed companies in the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange PLC at the Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2018, do hereby notify you of my willingness 
to be so elected.
SIGNED this ………….. day of ....................................................., 2018.
....................................................................................
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1)  Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows: 
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless 
not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been 
delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for 
which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be 
proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
“Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; 
“Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a   contract 
of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company;
2)   To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by
       5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018. 
Nairobi Securities Exchange  |  55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA 
 Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007  |  info@nse.co.ke  |  www.nse.co.ke
CONSENT FORM FOR LISTED COMPANIES 
Discover Opportunity


NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017                                                                                   
PAGE  //121
 
NOTES

PAGE // 122
N a i r o b i  S e c u r i t i e s  E x c h a n g e  |  A n n u a l  R e p o r t  2 0 1 7
T.  
C. 
 
E. 
W. 
Discover Opportunity

