2021
INTEGRATED REPORT &
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The leading Securities Exchange in East and Central Africa connecting 
capital to opportunities in the region through provision of a world 
class trading facility for local and international issuers and investors.
 

i
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Growing
the Region’s
Financial
Services Hub
We provide an all-inclusive trading platform 
anchored on best-in-class trading 
technology, wide array of investment
products and data dissemination 
capabilities.
www.nse.co.ke

ii
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Director's Statement
Corporate Governance Statement
Directors Remuneration
Material Issues
Financial Statements
05 - 06
26 - 67
68 - 74
75 - 81
82 - 158
01 - 03
08
16 - 18
 07
04
19 - 25
09 - 11
Table Of Contents
Overview
Financial performance
Who we are
Our History
Corporate Information
Who we serve
NSE Structure
CEO Statement
About Report
12 - 15
Chairman's Statement

iii
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Information
DIRECTORS	
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Mr. Paul Mwai	
Mr. Michael Turner
Mr. Paul Vollant
Ms. Risper Alaro
Ms. Isis Madison  
Mr. Samuel Kimani
Mr. Bob Karina
Ms. Nasim Devji
Mr. Hosea K. Kili
Mr. Donald Wangunyu
Mr. Stephen Chege 
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo
Chairman
Vice Chairman	
Retired on 3 June 2021
Retired on 3 June 2021
Retired on 3 June 2021 
Retired on 3 June 2021
Joined on 3 June 2021
Joined on 3 June 2021 
Chief Executive
SECRETARY	
Mr. Kuria Waithaka
P.O. Box 43633 - 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
REGISTERED OFFICE
L.R. No 209/18851 
The Exchange, 55 Westlands Road
P.O. Box 43633 - 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
BANKERS
KCB Bank Limited 
Moi Avenue Branch   
P.O. Box 30081 – 00100  
Nairobi, Kenya   
Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited
Chiromo Branch
P.O Box 3003 - 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited 
Westlands Branch
P.O. Box 48231 – 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
AUDITOR
Deloitte & Touche LLP 
Deloitte Place
Off Waiyaki Way
P.O. Box 40092 - 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
LEGAL ADVISERS	
Hamilton Harrison & Mathews
Delta Office Suites, 1st floor
Block A, Off Waiyaki Way
P.O. Box 30333 - 00100 GPO
Nairobi, Kenya	
Mboya Wangong’u & Waiyaki Advocates
Lex Chambers
Maji Mazuri Road, Off James Gichuru Road, Lavington
P.O. Box 74041 – 00200
Nairobi, Kenya
Walker Kontos Advocates
Hakika House
Bishops Road
P.O. Box 60680 – 00200
Nairobi, Kenya
	

4
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
About this report
Purpose
Scope of the Report
Preparations and 
Presentation
Assurance
This report is an acknowledgement of the critical importance 
the Group has placed in enhancing its communication with 
stakeholders through linking financial and non-financial 
standards in measuring our performance. This report will 
therefore provide insights into the financial, 
operational, strategic, social and governance 
performance as well as outcomes and its implications 
to the Group in the year under review.  
This integrated report has been prepared 
in accordance with the International Integrated 
Reporting Framework. The NSE Board of 
Directors have applied the fundamental 
concepts and principles recommended in the 
framework in the preparation of this report.  
As a listed company, we have prepared this 
report in line with the guidelines of the 
Kenya Companies Act 2015 and 
specifications issued by the Capital 
Markets Authority (CMA). The Group 
Financial Statements were prepared 
in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS).
The Group’s Financial 
Statements were 
audited by 
Deloitte and
Touche LLP. 
The scope of this report relates to the NSE, 
an investment services company as well 
as material issues arising from its 
business performance and other related 
investments.
Any reference made to the Group 
will represent the NSE, its 
subsidiaries and 
associate investments.
The report will however 
capture any material issues 
arising from any related 
transactions regarding 
the Group before the 
publication of this 
report.
Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc is pleased to present its  Integrated Report for the period January 1 2021 to 
December 31 2021. The report is aimed at providing adequate information to our stakeholders, giving a 
comprehensive overview of how the NSE created value to all its stakeholders in the period under review. It reports 
on how the NSE leveraged on its various forms of capitals to create and enhance value. 
The report will offer our stakeholders a deeper understanding of our operations, achievements, opportunities as well 
as challenges we faced during the period under review as we seek to become Africa’s leading trading and investment 
platform.

5
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Creating
Investment
Opportunities
in Regional
Economies
We offer investors access to Kenya’s and East 
Africa’s economic growth through exposure 
to leading companies across various sectors of 
the economy.
www.nse.co.ke

6
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Mission
Linking capital to 
opportunity
to enhance 
stakeholder value.
Vision
To be the leading 
exchange
and the investment 
partner
of choice through 
providing
efficient investment and
capital raising services 
in
Africa and globally.
Our Core Values
Integrity
Excellence
Teamwork
Sustainability
Accountability
Vision, mission and core values
Who we are
We are a leading African Securities Exchange based in Kenya, providing an avenue for capital raising anchored on 
a multi-asset class trading platform. We offer a broad range of products comprising of equities, bonds, Exchange 
Traded Funds (ETFs), Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), data and training services geared towards addressing 
investors' needs. In addition, we also a platform for the trading and settlement of securities of unquoted companies 
called the Unquoted Securities Platform (USP). We equally support the growth and development of medium 
enterprises through the Ibuka program.
Our diverse blend of domestic and international investors enable companies and the Government to mobilize 
domestic resources and international capital to support economic growth in Kenya. Our role positions us to turn 
growth in leading development market infrastructure.
Our Purpose
The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is the principal bourse in Kenya, offering an automated platform for the 
listing and trading of multiple securities. NSE has consistently offered a well-regulated, robust and world class 
platform for the trading of equities, bonds and derivatives. We offer data and analytics solutions to a wide array of 
investment clients both locally and internationally.
NSE is the market of choice for local and international investors looking to gain exposure to the East African 
economies. 

7
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Who we serve
We are the gateway to Kenya’s economic 
growth. We offer investors and issuers 
exposure to Kenya’s economic growth, a 
credible and reliable entry point.
01
We serve a wide array of retail 
and Institutional investors both 
local and foreign with 
discretionary mandate to invest in 
frontier equities markets and 
Derivatives Products. Institutional 
investors make up to 65% of our 
investors. 
Investors
02
We offer a capital raising platform for issuers 
looking to raise debt or equity capital.
Issuers
04
The NSE offers data products to 
a wide variety of domestic and 
international clients including; 
Data Vendors, Investment 
Advisors, Fund Managers, 
Trading System Developers as 
Data Clients
05
We offer both basic and specialized training 
services to a wide variety of market players 
and the general public.  Our training services 
builds the capacity of market players in an ever 
changing environment, ensuring their ability to 
trade with even the most complex of 
instruments while keeping up with global 
trends. 
Training Clients
well as Index Computing 
Companies.
03
We provide an avenue for the Government to raise capital to 
finance recurrent expenditure and infrastructure projects.
Government

8
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
NSE Structure
*The Board of Directors of NSE Clear 
Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF 
and IPF who manage and administer 
the funds
Shareholders
Nairobi Securities 
Exchange PLC
88% 
AKS Nominees
Limited
NSE Clear Limited
100% 
Central Depository &
Settlement Corporation
Limited (CDSC)
22.5%
18%
NSE Settlement
Guarantee Fund
(SGF)
NSE Investor
Protection
Fund (IPF)

9
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Access To
Flexible Quoting
Requirements
The USP will offer issuers a flexible 
quoting and regulatory 
requirements whilst enabling
them to trade their securities.
www.nse.co.ke
Catalyst for growth

10
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
1920 to 1953
Dealing in shares commenced with trading 
taking place on a gentleman’s agreement.
London Stock Exchange (LSE) officials 
accepted to recognize the setting up of the 
Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE) as an 
overseas stock exchange in 1953.
1921
The NSE was registered as a 
private company limited by 
shares. Share trading moved 
from being conducted over a 
cup of tea (at the Exchange 
Bar at the Stanley Hotel), to 
the floor based open outcry 
system.
2006
The NSE implemented live trading on its 
own Automated Trading System (ATS)
trading equities. The ATS also had the
capability of trading immobilized
corporate bonds and treasury bonds.
2008 April
The NSE launched the NSE Investment 
Challenge to promote financial literacy
and stock market investments amongst
Kenyan youth.
2009
The NSE marked the first day 
of automated trading in 
government bonds through 
the ATS and uploaded all 
government bonds on the 
System.
2011 July
The Nairobi Stock Exchange Limited 
changed its name to the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange Limited. The change of name 
was a reflection of the 2010 – 2014 
strategic plan of the NSE to evolve into a
full service securities exchange, which 
supports trading, clearing and settlement 
of equities, debt, derivatives and other 
associated instruments.
2013 January
The Growth Enterprise Market Segment 
was launched giving small and medium
enterprises a great opportunity to access
the capital markets.
2014 June
The NSE received formal 
approval from the Capital 
Markets Authority (CMA) 
to operate as a 
demutualized entity. The 
NSE also received formal 
approval from the CMA to 
offer its shares to the 
public through an Initial 
Public offer (IPO) and to 
self list it shares.
2014 September
The NSE listed its 194,625,000 
issued and fully paid up shares 
on the Main Investment 
Market Segment under a new 
sector - Investment Services of 
the Bourse after a successful 
IPO. Following its self-listing, 
the Exchange became the 
second African Exchange after 
the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange, to be listed,supports 
trading, clearing and 
settlement of equities,
debt, derivatives and other 
associated instruments.
Our History

11
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
2015 October
The NSE became the fourth 
African Bourse to launch Real 
Estate Investments Trusts
(REITs) market and
consequently listed the first 
REIT, the Stanlib Fahari I-REIT.
2016 July
The NSE received formal 
recognition as a Self-Regulatory
Organization (SRO) by the 
Capital Markets Authority
(CMA).
2017 June
The NSE became the first 
Exchange in the East African
region to introduce Exchange 
Traded Funds (ETFs) and 
subsequently listed the Barclays 
New Gold ETF.
2018 December
The NSE launched its incubation 
and acceleration program 
dubbed Ibuka (meaning ‘emerge’ 
in Swahili) to offer companies 
the opportunity to grow
their businesses and develop 
scalable and impactful business 
models.
2019 February
The NSE launched revised listing 
rules incorporating listing 
requirements for Green Bonds 
enabling the NSE offer a new 
asset class to issuers and
investors.
2019 May
The East African Securities Exchanges 
Association (EASEA) in partnership with the 
Rwanda Stock Exchange hosted the inaugural 
within East Africa Capital Markets Day in 
Kigali, Rwanda.
June 2020
Launched a 
dynamic and 
user-friendly
mobile app, 
to enhance 
investors’
participation 
in Kenya’s 
capital 
market.
May 2021
Launched its 
unquoted 
Securities 
Platform
(USP)
June 2021
NSE Derivatives 
Market (NEXT) 
formally
launched the 
Mini NSE 25 
index futures
contracts meant 
to appel to relail
investors due to 
its lower initial 
margin
requirements.
August 2021
Safaricom and Nairobi 
securities Exchange
announced their partnership 
to enable customers
invest in stocks by redeeming 
their accrued Bonga
points. Customers redeem 
their points at a rate of
KES 1 for every 5 points.
November 2021
NSE launched ESG
Disclosures Guidance
Manual.
2019 October
The NSE launched a 
new trading system
provided by
millennium
technologies,
who are part of the 
London Stock 
Exchange group.
2019 July
The NSE launched NEXT 
Derivatives Market,
becoming the second 
Exchange in Africa to
offer Exchange traded 
derivatives. The
launch enabled the NSE 
commence the
trading of Single Stock 
and Index Futures. 
2018 January
The NSE became the first 
Exchange in East and Central 
Africa to be admitted as a full
member of the World
Federation of Exchanges
(WFE).
December 2021
NSE launched Day Trading as 
part of its strategy to 
enhance market liquidity.

12
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Chairman’s Statement
Statement  From The Chairman Of The Board
Dear Shareholders, 
It gives me great pleasure to present to you our 
Integrated Report for the Financial Year ended December 
2021.  The year under review remained challenging for 
businesses both locally and internationally. Despite the 
macro-economic improvements across various sectors 
of the economy, the protracted effects of the COVID-19 
pandemic continued to stifle a full economic recovery 
in Kenya.
Increased uncertainty negatively affected investors’ 
sentiments and influenced a majority of their investment 
strategies especially in the first half of the year 2021. 
The year saw increased reallocation of capital towards 
guaranteed investment. This consequently affected the 
performance of equity listed securities on the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange (NSE). This led to marginal decrease 
in equity turnover in the year under review exerting 
pressure on our main revenue line, trading fees. 
Despite the COVID-19 related uncertainty and other 
macro-economic headwinds, we remained resilient 
boosting non-trading income and cushioning the 
business from adverse impact from market volatility. 
This is evidenced by our total income growth which 
increased marginally by  6.6% as will be highlighted 
in detail by the Group Chief Executive’s statement. 
During the year under review, the Board focused 
on executing against the company’s strategic 
priorities whilst undertaking initiatives to enhance 
our efficiency, drive growth across our key revenue 
lines and deliver value to our shareholders. 
To appreciate the Group’s performance in the year 
2021, allow me to highlight the strategic initiatives 
and interventions we undertook to deliver on our 
mandate whilst ensuring the business remained 
resilient in the year under review. 
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Board Chairman

13
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Chairman’s Statement
Despite the 
macro-economic 
headwinds, we 
remained resilient 
evidenced by our 
total income
growth which 
increased marginally 
by  6.6%. 
Despite the challenges, we remain resilient in 
maintaning market service continuity as well as 
executing  the company’s strategic priorities by 
undertaking initiatives to enhance our efficiency, 
drive growth across our key revenue lines and 
deliver value to our shareholders. 
To appreciate the Group’s performance in the year 
2021, allow me to highlight the strategic initiatives 
and interventions we undertook to deliver on our 
mandate whilst ensuring the business remained 
resilient in the year under review. 
The launch of a New Market 
Infrastructure - The Unquoted 
Securities Platform 
As a business, we remained committed to providing 
infrastructure solutions that enhance the efficiency 
and effectiveness of conducting financial market 
transactions in Kenya and the region. This is 
embedded in our mission of connecting businesses 
to capital. Guided by this, the NSE finalised and 
launched the Unquoted Securities Platform (USP), an 
automated solution for the trading and settlement 
of securities of unlisted companies.
The  current Over the Counter (OTC) market 
ecosystem 
remains 
significantly 
fragmented, 
highly inefficient and flawed with minimal liquidity 
and transparency. The aforementioned equally 
challenges 
coupled 
with 
minimal 
regulatory 
oversight of the OTC market have created persistent 
risks for issuers and investors of unquoted 
companies.  This however, creates an opportunity 
for the NSE.
The launch of the USP provided a solution that 
enhances efficiency, transparency as well as 
liquidity in the unquoted securities as evidenced by 
the seamless trading and settlement of inaugural 
REITs, the Acorn Holding  D- REIT and I-REIT quoted 
on the market. 
We equally see the platform as a pipeline building 
avenue for the NSE. As is the case of developed 
markets, we estimate that at least 5% of companies 
on the USP will graduate and list on various 
segments of the NSE. From a revenue perspective, 
the platform has proved to generate significant 
revenues for the company since its launch and we 
foresee great potential for the platform to provide 
solutions to other players including SACCOs.
Recovery of the Corporate 
Bond  Market
Dear shareholders, 
The year under review marked yet another 
recovery period for the corporate bond market in 
Kenya. The market posted its strong performance 
recovering from a challenging period occasioned 
by the failure of two corporate bonds. The recovery 
and performance of the two bonds    underscores 
renewed confidence in the NSE by both issuers and 
investors. It equally underscores the attractiveness 
of our market as a capital raising avenue for 
enterprises seeking long term debt capital in Kenya.

14
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Chairman’s Statement
In the year under review, the bond market attracted 
four additional listings bringing the total number 
of outstanding corporate bonds to five. The issuers 
included Centum Real Estate, Family Bank, East Africa 
Breweries Limited and the Kenya Mortgage Refinance 
Company who collectively raised Kshs. 18 Billion. 
The recovery is significant and equally points at 
enhanced performance of the market in the future. 
aligned to the Group’s strategy of creating a vibrant 
corporate bond market for issuers and investors. 
Growth of the Data and 
Analytics Business 
In line with the Group’s 2020-2024 of growing non-
trading income to enhance shareholder value, I am 
happy to report that the Group has undertaken strategic 
measures to grow non trading income. This is significant 
and will play a critical role in  cushioning the business 
from revenue shocks arising from market challenges. 
Guided by this, the NSE enhanced its data offering and 
increased data related revenues by 40% in the year 
under review.
We continue to see potential for growth in the data and 
analytics business as a core service for both individual 
and institutional investors locally and internationally. 
Increasing our data offering will enable us target even a 
wider category of consumers for the products. 
Progress of the Privatization 
Program
When I took over as the Chairman of the NSE, I 
prioritized the privatization of leading state assets in 
the country. This involved sorting legacy challenges 
affecting privitization of state enterprises.Through 
continuous engagement with various Ministries and 
arms of Government such as the National Treasury, the 
National Assembly and The Privatization Commission, 
we were able to support and lobby for the appointment 
and gazettement of Board Members to the Privatization 
Commission. 
With the appointment of Board members who have 
been missing for the last two years, the Commission is 
now able to execute on its core mandate of identifying 
and preparing Government assets for privatizations. This 
will help develop a robust pipeline of state enterprises 
which could be privatised or improved through private 
sector participation. This will enhance qualilty listings 
on the NSE and support us enhance opportuinites for 
investors.
Albeit the forthcoming elections, we believe the 
commission will start the development of this pipeline 
and facilitate its future growth.
Outlook
Our outlook for the business this year comes at an 
increasingly uncertain period on account of a looming 
Presidential election in Kenya and geo-political tensions 
caused by the ongoing war between Ukraine and Russia.
Despite the heightened uncertainty, we will continue 
delivering on the company’s strategic priorities whilst 
adjusting our focus areas to changes in the operating 
environment to maximize shareholder value.
We will equally bolster our efforts to encourage listed 
companies tap into our market to access affordable 
growth capital to fund growth following a rather 
challenging list half of the year.
To increase the number of listed companies, we will 
continue to engage both the public and private sector 
companies for the listing of both State and private 
enterprises. This will enable us enhance the liquidity 
of the market, enable us list large cap companies thus 
reducing the concentration risk currently present in 
our market. I believe our initiatives will enable us grow 
shareholder value as well as position the business for 
future growth. 

15
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Chairman’s Statement
Conclusion and Appreciation
As I conclude my statement, I would like to express my sincere 
gratitude to various teams that have played a significantly important 
role in supporting our resilience in the year. I would like   to thank 
the Board of the NSE PLC for their guidance and perspective on 
steering the business in the year. The Board’s commitment to the 
growth of the company has been relentless. 
I would equally like to thank the Management and staff for the 
hard work and commitment in an extremely challenging operating 
environment. As a Board, we have noted your ability and willingness 
to adopt to support the business accordingly. 
I would like to thank the Government of Kenya for the renewed 
interest and commitment to enhance the growth of Kenya’s 
Capital Markets. Over the last one year, we have increased our 
engagement with the Government through the National Treasury, 
The Central Bank of Kenya the Capital Market Authority, as well 
as the Privatization Commission. I strongly believe we have laid 
the foundation that we needed to spearhead a market recovery in 
Kenya.
It would be remiss of me not to acknowledge our stakeholders 
in the capital markets industry, including the Kenya Association 
of Stockbrokers and Investment Banks, the market participants, 
our listed companies, the Fund Managers Association, various 
professional membership bodies, multilateral organizations and 
other business partners in the private and public sectors
Finally, I would like to thank our shareholders who are the 
cornerstone of our business. I have continued to receive significant 
support from our shareholders. I would like to reassure you of 
my commitment to grow the business and continually enhance 
shareholder value. 
Thank You,
KIPRONO KITTONY, EBS
BOARD CHAIRMAN
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE

16
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
CEO’s Statement
Mr. Geoffrey Odundo
Chief Executive
CEO’s Statement
A Reflection Of Progress 
Dear Shareholders, 
On behalf of the Management and Staff of the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange, I am delighted to share 
with you highlights on the operational and financial 
performance of your company for the year ending 
December 31, 2021.        
Already more than two (2) years full into the 
COVID-19 pandemic, it is sobering to reflect on the 
ongoing responses to the global pandemic, as well 
as future disruptions to the capital markets. The 
past year has really put to the test scaling principles 
and elucidating important lessons about catalyzing 
and sustaining transformative change in rapidly 
evolving contexts. 
Operating Environment
The global economy experienced recovery in 
2021, with the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF) projecting a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 
growth of 5.9%. The containment of the Covid-19 
pandemic was a key factor in economic recovery in 
2021. Economic activity continued to adapt to the 
pandemic and associated restrictions. The period 
witnessed a restoration of supply chains which 
facilitated the movement of goods and persons 
across the globe. 
Kenya’s GDP forecast for 2021 was adjusted higher 
by the National Treasury to 6.6% from 6.4%, 
mainly as a result of a recovery in key sectors that 
support the economy. Inflation in 2021 averaged 
6.1%, triggered mainly by increased food and fuel 
prices. The Government made several decisions 
to stimulate the economy including reducing and 
maintaining the Central Bank Rate at 7%. 

17
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
CEO’s Statement
after Tax reduced by 21% to Kshs. 132.5 Million 
from Kshs. 167 Million recorded the previous year 
reflecting the impact of increase in exceptional 
provisions resulting from International Financial 
Reporting Standards adjustments in our asset 
holdings and additional tax charges consequently 
increasing administrative expenses.
We recorded strong growth in our data and 
investment income lines which increased by 40% 
and 24% respectively. This was a result of proactive 
data sales to our institutional clients both locally 
and internationally and prudent management of our 
investible cash.
Total assets decreased marginally by 4% from Kshs. 
2.31 Billion in 2020 to Kshs. 2.2 Billion in 2021 
on account of a write down of our fixed asset and 
payment of a special dividend at the close of the 
year.
The period also witnessed the cessation of tax 
concessions 
and 
other 
incentives 
following 
improved vaccination levels. 
The year was also characterised by the other 
challenges including adverse weather conditions 
which was declared a national disaster in September 
2021.
Trading and Financial 
Performance
As highlighted by the Chairman in his statement, 
our trading and financial performance in the year 
was marginally affected by the protracted effects 
of the COVID-19 pandemic which influenced 
trading strategies for a majority of our local and 
international investors.
Equity turnover declined by 7.6 % to Kshs. 137.4 
Billion compared to Kshs. 148.6 Billion recorded in 
2020. Bonds turnover however recorded significant 
improvements posting a 38.3% growth to close the 
year at Kshs.  936 Billion.
Our 
benchmark 
indices 
recorded 
overall 
improvements in the year under review compared 
to the year 2020.  The all-inclusive NSE All Share 
Index posted a 9.43% increase year over year to 
close at 166.46.  The NSE 20 Share Index recorded 
a marginal increase of 1.83% to close the year at 
1,902.57. The NSE 25 Share Index added a 9.62% 
to settle at 3743. 90. 
During the year, the NSE introduced market making 
on its Derivatives Market. The initiative significantly 
boosted trading activity on the market reflected in 
the 600% growth in turnover to Kshs. 289 Million 
compared to Kshs. 40 Million.
During the year, net the Group recorded a 4% 
decline in Profit before Tax to Kshs. 210 Million from 
Kshs. 218 Million recorded in the year 2020. Profit 

18
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
CEO’s Statement
Market Outlook
The Exchange will continue to drive investor interest in all its products while encouraging companies to tap 
into the capital markets, to fund their businesses as well as manage their risks. These include our Exchange 
Traded Funds (ETFs), Real Estate Investment Trust (REITs) and the Derivatives market. We currently have a 
strong demand side as evidenced by the recent successful oversubscription of the capital raising done by 
companies in our equity and corporate bond markets. Our focus will be on building the supply side. In line 
with this, we will continue to engage both public and private institutions to consider blending their capital 
structures, by taking up equity capital which has proven to be critical to their long term sustainability. 
In line with our efforts to enhance Corporate Governance we will continue to encourage our issuer companies 
to implement Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) reporting using the ESG Guidance Manual provided 
by the NSE in 2021. 
The launch of the Unquoted Securities Platform in May 2021 has permitted the Exchange to explore the 
untapped opportunities that exists in the ever growing private over the counter markets space in Kenya. 
The Platform offers a very prominent value proposition through increased transparency, better turnaround 
time in closure of trades and an avenue for capital raising for entities that are not yet ready for the main market. 
This asset class provides an avenue for private companies, Savings and Credit Co-operative Organisations 
(Saccos) and other specialized units to trade. 
We will aggressively target to grow interest especially 
among Small and Medium Sized Enterprise (SME) 
companies. 
The retail sector is a key focus for us in 2022. In this 
regard, we have developed initiatives to support interest 
from the retail sectors, key among them being point for 
shares and day trading of shares. With the upcoming 
Kenyan elections in August 2022, we remain positive 
of a productive business environment that will enable 
investors and issuers seek opportunities in the capital 
markets.
Appreciation
On behalf of the Management of the Exchange, I would 
like to extend my appreciation and gratitude to our Board 
of Directors for their guidance, to our staff  for their loyalty 
and dedication,  to our Regulator for their excellent work, 
and to listed companies, trading participants and service 
providers for their unwavering support.
GEOFFREY O. ODUNDO
CHIEF EXECUTIVE

19
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
NSE Annual Report & 
Financial Statemets
Directors
Report

20
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Paul Mwai
Geoffrey Odundo
Board Chairman
Board Vice-Chairman
Chief Executive

21
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Michael Turner
Paul Vollant
Risper Alaro
Non-Executive Director 
representing Listed 
Companies
Non-Executive Director
Independent Non-
Executive Director

22
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Isis Nyong’o-Madison
Donald Wangunyu
Stephen Chege
Independent Non-
Executive Director
Non-Executive Director 
Representing Trading 
Participants
Non-Executive Director 
Representing Listed 
Companies

23
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Executive Committee Members
David Wainaina
Jane Kiarie
Lucy Kamar
Kuria Waithaka
Terrence Adembesa
Fredrick Okong’o
Loise Wangui
Irungu Wagemma
Geoffrey Odundo
Chief Operating Officer
Chief Finance Officer
Chief Officer, Human 
Resources & Administration
Company Secretary & 
Chief Legal Officer
Chief Business Officer (former)
Chief Internal Auditor
Chief Officer, Regulatory 
Affairs
Chief Officer, Strategy, Risk 
and Compliance
Chief Executive

24
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Directors’ Report
The directors present their annual report together with 
the audited financial statements of Nairobi Securities 
Exchange PLC (NSE/the “Company”/the “Exchange”) 
and its subsidiaries and structured entities (together, the 
“Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2021, which 
show the state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
Principal Activities
The Company is the sole securities Exchange licensed 
by the Capital Markets Authority to promote, develop, 
support and carry on the business of a securities Exchange 
and to discharge all the functions of a securities Exchange 
in Kenya.
NSE Clear Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
NSE. The principal objectives of NSE Clear Limited are to 
carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to 
provide clearing and settlement services for transactions 
in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a 
securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in 
derivative securities transactions and to carry out all 
activities that pertain to a clearing house. The license to 
operate a derivatives exchange was issued by the Capital 
Markets Authority to the NSE on 19 October 2015. The 
derivatives market was launched in July 2019.
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) 
and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) are 
trusts whose main purpose is to strengthen the financial 
integrity of the derivatives market, ensure settlement of 
transactions in derivatives securities in case of default 
by a clearing member and satisfy specified claims by 
the investing public arising out of non-settlement of 
obligations owed to them by trading members or losses 
incurred by reason of the default of the trading members. 
The Board of Directors of the NSE Clear Limited appoints 
Trustees of the SGF and IPF who manage and administer 
these funds. 
The Company’s holding in AKS Nominees Ltd (AKS) is 
89% (2020: 89%).  AKS holds an 18% shareholding in 
the ordinary shares of the Central Depository Settlement 
Corporation (CDSC) (2020: 18%). The principal activity 
of the subsidiary is holding equity shares in CDSC in 
trust for its members who are authorised to operate 
as stockbrokers and investment banks in the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange (NSE).
Additionally, in 2020, the Company incorporated the 
NSE Limited Liability Partnership (NSE LLP). The Partners 
of the NSE LLP are the NSE PLC, Chief Executive and the 
Chief Operating Officer of the NSE PLC. The LLP has a 
Management Committee that oversees the day to day 
activities of the LLP. The Management Committee of 
the LLP reports to the Board of Directors of NSE PLC. 
The principal activity of the LLP is to run the recently 
launched Unquoted securities platform. As per the 
Partnership Deed, NSE PLC shall contribute 100% of the 
capital of the NSE LLP.
Business Review
The year under review remained challenging on account 
of protracted economic effects of the COVID-19 
pandemic. The business remained resilient. The NSE 20 
index rose by 1.83% from 1868.39 points in 2020 to 
close at 1902.57 points in 2021.
The Group reported a Profit before Tax of Ksh 210 Million 
from Ksh 218 Million in 2021 representing a decline of 
4%. Profit after Tax stood at Ksh. 132.5 Million from 
Ksh. 167 in 2021 a decline of 21%.
Equity turnover stood at Ksh. 137 Million from Ksh. 148 
Million occasioned by reduced equity trading activity 
occassioned by reallocation of capital to fixed income 
assets. This in turn led to a reduction in equity trading 
levies from Kshs 356.8 Million for the twelve months 
ended 31 December 2020 to Ksh. 329.7 Million in 2021.
Bonds turnover increased by 38% to a historical high 
of Ksh. 956 Billion for the twelve months ended 31 
December 2021 as compared to Ksh. 691 Billion the 
same period in 2020. 

25
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Interest income increased by 24% from Ksh. 85.1 
Million in 2020 to Ksh. 105.7 Million in 2021 due to our 
active treasury management.
Our data business recorded a good performance 
increasing from Ksh. 36.8 Million to Ksh. 52.4 Million 
owing to a proactive institutional sale strategy. 
Administrative expenses increased by 7% from Ksh. 
467.2 Million to Ksh. 500 Million in the period under 
review. The increase was as a result of exceptional 
provisions resulting from IFRS adjustments in our asset 
holdings and additional tax charges.
Share of profit of associate decreased by 121% to a 
loss of Kshs. 3.3 Million in 2021 from Kshs. 16.1 Million 
in 2020 owing to low equity levies received from our 
associate investment company.
Other comprehensive profit resulted from the fair value 
movement of our quoted investment amounting to 
Kshs. 26.7 Million.
Total assets decreased marginally by 4% from Kshs. 
2.31 Billion in 2020 to Kshs. 2.2 Billion as at 2021 as a 
result of a write down of our fixed assets and payment 
of a special dividend at the close of the year.
Non-current liabilities as at both periods (2020 and 2021) 
included Kshs. 11.75 Million made up of contributions 
received from clearing members in 2019 towards the 
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund. 
Current liabilities stood at Kshs. 113 Million at the 
close 2021 and included a dividend payable of Kshs. 67 
Million.
Share Capital increased by Kshs. 2 Million due to shares 
issued to staff through Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Return on assets and return on equity reduced from 
7.25% and 7.72% respectively in the twelve months 
ended 31 December 2020 to 5.96% and 6.38% 
respectively in the same period 2021.
Dividend
The Group profit for the year of Kshs 132,534,000 
(2020: Kshs 167,918,000) has been added to retained 
earnings. The Directors recommend the approval of a 
Special dividend of Kshs 1.00 and final dividend of Sh 
0.40 per share amounting to Kshs 260 Million and Kshs 
104 Million respectively (2020: Kshs 0.53 per share 
amounting to Kshs 137 Million).
Directors
Mr. Bob Karina, Mr. Hosea Kiili, Ms. Nasim Devji and 
Mr. Samuel Kimani retired as Directors on 3 June 2021 
and were replaced by Mr. Donald Wangunyu and Mr. 
Stephen Chege on the same date.
The current members of the Board of Directors are as 
shown on page 22.
Disclosures To Auditor
The directors confirm that with respect to each director 
at the time of approval of this report:  
There is, as far as each director is aware, no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware; and
Each director has taken all steps that ought to have been 
taken as a director so as to be aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
Terms Of Appointment Of 
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP were appointed during the year 
and, having expressed their willingness, continue in 
office in accordance provisions of section 719 (2) of the 
Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity 
and independence of the auditor. This responsibility 
includes the approval of the audit engagement contract 
and the associated fees on behalf of the shareholders.
By order of the Board
Mr. Kuria Waithaka
Secretary 
29 March 2022

26
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
NSE Annual Report & 
Financial Statemets
Highlights
Significant Events - 2021

27
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
Highlights
Significant Events during the Year
1. NSE Joins 30% Club 
On February 17th 2022, the NSE joined the 30% Club, an organization that advocates for increase in gender 
diversity in Boards and Senior Management within the workplace.  
By joining the 30% Club, the NSE will champion for at least 30% representation of women on Boards and 
Senior Management of companies listed on the NSE and within the larger Capital Markets ecosystem. The 
NSE is committed to supporting enhance gender diversity in line with its to enhance sustainable growth 
among companies in Kenya.
2. NSE Rings the Bell for Gender Equality
n commemoration of the 2021 International Women’s Day, the NSE  joined over 100 stock Exchanges globally 
to Ring the Bell for Gender Equality on March 11th 2022.  The annual event was held in partnership with 
Global Compact Network Kenya, UN Women and International Finance Corporate (IFC), UN Sustainable Stock 
Exchanges  (SSE) Initiative is aimed at raising awareness of the fundamental importance of gender equality to 
business business growth and sustainable economic development. 
The event was graced by Prof. Margaret Kobia, Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Public Service, and Gender 
Affairs who gave an assurance of the Governments’ support towards gender equality in Kenya.
(From Left) Geoffrey Odundo, Chief Executive, NSE and Zuhura Ogada CEO, New Revenue Solutions 
Africa (right) during the signing ceremony to join the 30% club

28
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
3. The NSE Completes the Integration of its Bond System 
The Nairobi Securities Exchange announced the successful integration of its bond system with Refinitiv’s Fixed 
Income Call Outs application (FICO) on February 23rd 2022. FICO is an automated workflow that facilitates 
negotiations and agreements of fixed Income bonds trading terms among Kenyan banks, brokerage firms and 
the Central Securities Depository (CSD).
The integration is part of enhancements of our trading systems and was aimed at facilitating seamless trading 
of fixed income transactions supporting accurate price discovery, enhanced market liquidity, improved trade 
negotiations and execution as well as an enhanced trade cycle process. Equally, the integration sought to 
enhance the monitoring and transparency which will lead to increased trading and operational efficiency.
Following the integration, market players have benefited from certainty of executions as well as leverage on 
the integration to access and process real time and historical data on fixed incomes transactions. Similarly, the 
integration has led to reduced costs by eliminating cost duplication of related work and manual interventions. 
The adoption of Refinitiv’s FICO makes Kenya one of the first frontier markets globally to deploy an automated 
Over the Counter (OTC) FI workflow that integrates with both the securities exchange and the CSD.
4. Launch of the Unquoted Securities Platform (USP)
On May 13, 2021, the NSE launched the Unquoted Securities Platform (USP), a market infrastructure that 
facilitates the trading, clearing and settlement of securities of unquoted companies. 
The USP offers issuers an opportunity to access the capital markets for long term funding through private 
placements whilst enjoying flexibility in listing requirements and obligations. Equally, the USP enables 
companies that are not quoted and have a register of shareholders to enjoy price discovery and increase 
liquidity of their shares. The platform increases transparency as well as access to information for investors as 
prices are published daily.
(Left ) Ms. Mary Mulili, Executive Director, UBA Bank Kenya,  Mr. Geoffrey Odundo, Chief Executive NSE 
(centre), Ms. Elizabeth Obando, WEE Team Leader, UN Women (Second from Right) , Ms. Carole Kariuki, 
CEO KEPSA (right) join Prof. Margaret Kobia, Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Public Service, and Gender 
Affairs as she rings the bell to commemorate the 2021 International Women’s Day. 

29
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
Acorn Holdings Ltd quoted its Income and Development Real Estate Investments Trusts on the Unquoted 
Securities Platform. The quoting makes Acorn the first company to tap into the market infrastructure for the 
trading of shares of unquoted companies. 
5. Real-time Derivatives Market data 
On March 3rd, 2021, the NSE finalized the introduction of real-time Derivatives Market data on the Elektron 
Real Time platform offered by Refinitiv. Through the onboarding of the data, Elektron Real Time now provide 
investors with level one real-time updates on the NSE’s single stock futures and index futures products. 
Elektron Real Time is a data feed infrastructure built by Refinitiv, a leading global financial markets infrastructure 
and data provider. This initiative makes Refinitiv the first international data vendor to onboard the NEXT data 
and extends the NSE derivatives market’s regional and global reach.
6. New Broker Network 
The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) successfully transitioned to a new state of the art broker connectivity 
solution, SD-WAN, powered by Safaricom as the technology partner on October 2nd 2021. 
SD-WAN is a virtual Wide Area Network (WAN) architecture that allows businesses to leverage any combination 
of transport services, including MPLS, Long Term Evolution (LTE) and broadband internet services – to securely 
connect users to business applications.The network interconnects the NSE, the Central Depository and 
Settlement Corporation (CDSC) and all the Trading Participants in the market to offer higher trading platform 
availability.
The integration reduced connectivity costs to the brokers by approximately 30 per cent as well as ensured 
higher uptime and performance and increased network security.The NSE is leveraging on Safaricom’s 
experience and excellent service support to ensure a stable, secure and resilient network infrastructure for 
securities trading.

30
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
7. NSE Partners with Safaricom for Bonga Deals
On August 10th 2022, the NSE partnered With Safaricom to enable Kenyans invest in stocks using their 
accrued Bonga Points. The service is available to all Safaricom customers, who can redeem their points 
through licensed Trading Participants, with ten already activated.
Through the initiative, the NSE intends to unlock more investment opportunities to investors using convenient 
and innovative solutions. The partnership resonates with NSE’s resolve to connect capital with opportunities as 
anchored in the NSE 2020-2024 strategic plan. It further provides an avenue for retail investors to participate 
in the NSE.  
The current trading participants able to extend the services to the clients include; NCBA Capital, Faida 
Investment Bank, AIB-AXYS, ABC Capital, Old Mutual Securities, Kingdom Securities, Suntra Investments, 
Francis Drummond & Company, Dyer & Blair Investments and Sterling Capital LTD. 
8. EGM Securities Becomes Kenya’s First Online Trading Broker to 
Offer Derivatives
April 20th 2021, EGM Securities, a subsidiary of the global Equiti Group, became Kenya’s first online trading 
broker to offer NSE derivatives contracts on the NSE Derivatives Market. NSE derivatives contracts are based 
on the most liquid traded equities and index in Kenya. 
The new NSE derivatives offering is part of NSE’s initiatives to enhance easier access of the market by retail 
investors through enhancing the customer onboarding and trading  experience.
9. Nation Media Group Launched Kenya’s First Share Buyback 
Programme at the NSE
Nation Media Group launched Kenya’s first share buyback programme. NMG’s shareholders approved a 
minimum price equivalent to the par value of an ordinary share and a maximum Buyback price of KES 25.00 
per ordinary share (“Buyback Price”).
The share buyback sought to address undervaluation and also to facilitate those shareholders who seek to 
liquidate part or all their shares. All the ordinary shares that were acquired by the company are currently 
being held as treasury shares.
(Left to right) NSE vice-chairman Paul Mwai, NSE chief executive Geoffrey Odundo, CDSC chief executive 
Nkoregamba Mwebesa, CMA CEO Wycliffe Shamiah, Faida Investment Bank Operations Director Rina 
Karina, Nation Media Group CEO Stephen Gitagama and ENS Africa partner Mahesh Acharya toast to 
commemorate the commencement of NMG’s share buy back program.  

31
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
10. Family Bank’s Corporate Bond Commence Trading at the NSE
The Capital Markets Authority gave Family Bank a nod to list the first tranche of its Medium Term Note under 
the Fixed Income Market Segment at the NSE after a successful offer that raised a total of KES 4.42 billion 
against a KES 3 billion target, marking a subscription rate of 147.3%. 
The performance of the bond demonstrated renewed confidence by investors in the corporate bond market 
in Kenya. 
11. CMA, NSE and KEPFIC Sign MOU to Support Infrastructure 
Projects Financing and Development
The Capital Markets Authority (CMA), the NSE and the Kenya Pension Funds Investment Consortium (KEPFIC) 
signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to support infrastructure projects financing and development 
through the capital markets. 
The pension’s sector regulator, the Retirement Benefits Authority (RBA), introduced infrastructure as a distinct 
investment category under the pension fund investment regulations. This allows pension funds to directly 
invest up to 10 percent of their portfolio in the asset class, potentially unlocking approximately Ksh.140 
billion for infrastructure investments. 
The MoU is significant and will support deepen Kenyan capital markets and unlock investments in some of the 
products on the NSE including REITs. 
 NSE Board Chairman Kiprono Kittony EBS (Left)  joins Family Bank Board Chairman Wilfred Kiboro,Family 
Bank CEO Rebecca Mbithi and NSE Chief Executive Geoffrey Odundo at the bell ringing ceremony to 
mark the listing of the Family Bank Corporate Bond at the NSE

32
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
12. EABL Lists Kshs. 10 Billion Medium Term Note on the NSE
East African Breweries Limited listed its Kshs. 10 Billion Medium Term Note on the NSE following its successful 
primary issuance. The five-year, fixed rate instrument was offered at an interest rate of 12.25 percent payable 
semi-annually. The offer was opened on October 6 and closed on October 21, 2021.
The funds raised will be used to finance investments in expanding production, repay debts taken in the 
ordinary course of business, refinance short-term borrowings and provide working capital.  
13.EABL Issues Kshs. 6 Billion Medium Term Note
EABL Group Managing Director and CEO Jane Karuku performed the ceremonial bell-ringing ceremony to 
mark the start of trading for East African Breweries (EABL) Plc’s Medium-Term Note.
13. NSE Driving ESG Reporting Excellence
The NSE launched its Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Disclosures Guidance Manual. By issuing 
these guidelines, the NSE aims at improving and standardizing ESG information reported by listed companies 
in Kenya. 
 
Sundeep Raichura, Board Chairman, KEPFIC (Left),) Geoffrey Odundo, Chief Executive, NSE (Centre) and 
Wycliffe Shamiah, CEO CMA (Right) during the signing of the MoU
(from left to right) CMA CEO, Wycliffe Shamiah, Absa Bank MD & CEO, Jeremy Awori, EABL MD & CEO 
Jane Karuku, CMA Board Chairman, Nick Nesbitt, EABL CFO, Risper Genga Ohaga and NSE CE, Geoffrey 
Odundo during the bell ringing ceremony to mark the listing of the bond on the NSE. 

33
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
The guidelines provide a granular, tactical approach to ESG reporting that meets international standards on 
ESG reporting. Further guidance has been provided on how listed companies can integrate ESG considerations 
into their organisations, helping capture significant opportunities for stakeholders while managing critical 
business risks. Consistent application of these guidelines will help improve the capital markets in Kenya by 
providing information that investors are now demanding to facilitate decision making and capital allocation. 
14. NSE Launches Day Trading
Kenya was the first frontier market to launch day trading as part of NSE’s strategy to enhance market liquidity 
following approval from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). Day trading refers to the practice of purchasing 
and selling a security within a single day or trading session or multiple times over the course of the day. 
The colorful event was graced by the Director General of the National Treasury, Albert Mwenda representing 
the Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani who noted, “The launch of day trading is a testament of the country’s 
continued development in enhancing its capital market capabilities and an acknowledgement of the positive 
impact of continued collaboration between the National Treasury, The Capital Markets Authority and the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange.”
The NSE currently has 65 listed securities on the trading system and all investors who currently have accounts 
at the Central Depository System (CDS) are able to take part in day trading. 
15. Corporate Leaders Rally to Secure Nairobi’s Water Supply 
The private sector has been urged to take seriously the risk of a likely water crisis in Nairobi to avoid the 
(From left to right) EABL MD & CEO Jane Karuku, NSE Chief Executive, Geoffrey Odundo, NSE Director, Isis 
Nyong’o-Madison, CMA CEO, Wycliffe Shamiah during the launch of the ESG Disclosure Guidance Manual 
(From left to right) CDSC CEO, Nkoregamba Mwebesa, NSE former Vice-chairman and CEO Faida 
Investment Bank, Bob Karina, CMA Board chairman, Nick Nesbitt, Director General of the National 
Treasury, Albert Mwenda, NSE Board Chairman, Kiprono Kittony EBS, NSE CE Geoffrey Odundo, Kenya 
Association of Stockbrokers and Investment Banks (KASIB) CEO, Willie Njoroge

34
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
experience of Cape Town, South Africa, whose taps almost ran dry in 2018. 
A breakfast event co-hosted by the Upper Tana Nairobi Water Fund Trust (UTNWFT) - a conservation charitable 
trust and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) to enlighten business leaders about the risk noted that 
unsustainable farming practices by farmers in the Upper Tana catchment basin, coupled with climate change, 
population growth and increased industrial demand are threatening the sustainable supply of water to the 
city- drawing parallels with Cape Town. Back in 2018, in what was dubbed Day Zero, residents and industry in 
Cape Town faced the prospect of their taps being turned off and needing to line up to collect water at supply 
points after the watersheds of the Greater Cape Town region dried up.  Industry and the City of Cape Town had 
been warned by NGOs and scientists for years that invasive trees -mostly pines and eucalyptus - were draining 
the catchment, but nothing was done until it was almost too late.  
The event, which was presided over by Environment and Forestry Principal Secretary, Dr Chris Kiptoo, brought 
together business leaders of listed companies, fund managers, institutional investors, and stockbrokers.
16. NSE Supports Small Businesses Withstand the Shocks of 
Covid
The NSE raised approximately Kshs. 4.8 Million in cash and in kind in its sixth edition of the 
Annual Charity Trading Day bringing the total contribution to Kshs. 43.8 Million since inception. 
The NSE Charity Trading Day is an annual event that brings together known personalities, to make calls to 
clients on behalf of the dealers while encouraging them to make trades. The Charity Trading Day provides 
an opportunity for capital market players to come together and play their part in addressing some of the 
challenges that plague our society. 
17. NSE Joins UN SSE Sustainable Derivatives Network
The NSE today made a voluntary commitment to become a signatory of the Sustainable Stock Exchange 
(SSE)’s derivatives exchanges network to further the sustainability of financial markets. NSE’s collaboration 
with and contributions to the UN’s SSE Initiative reiterates its commitment to building a new kind of finance, 
shifting paradigms to support a new world view. 
Celebrities and dealers join NSE’s leadership on stage in celebration of the 6th NSE Charity Trading Day

35
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Highlights 2021
Throughout the last decade, the role of Stock Exchanges and equity markets in driving sustainable development 
has been well-explored, seeing the number of SSE members rise from 5 founding signatories to over 100 
today. Meanwhile, the potential of derivatives exchanges and the derivatives market remains less understood. 
18. NSE in Partnership with Mtech Sponsors the Kitale Golf 
Tournament
The NSE in partnership with Mtech, a Multinational Technology Company that specializes in digital solutions, 
sponsored the Kitale Golf Club Tournament held in Kitale Club. The prestigious event brought together top 
golfers in the North Rift and Western region of the country which presented a unique opportunity for NSE to 
promote itself to potential investors and high net worth individuals in the region. 
One of NSE’s key objective is to keep prospecting for new customers and expanding our reach to new markets 
through the training and public education department.
NSE Board Chairman Kiprono Kittony, EBS teeing off during a golf tournament jointly sponsored by 
Nairobi Securities Exchange and MTECH Limited at Kitale Golf Club

36
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Enterprise Risk Management (Erm) Framework
Background
The objective of the NSE’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework is to protect shareholders’ value in 
order to enhance NSE’s competitive advantage, improve business performance and optimize risk management 
and compliance value. The framework is aligned to ISO 31000:2018 Risk Management Guidelines, COSO 
Enterprise Risk Management 2017 as well the applicable laws, regulations and guidelines. The NSE has 
succeeded in applying the risk framework to such an extent as to make risk management not only a reporting 
and oversight obligation, but a management discipline. In support of this, an internal risk working group was 
established in 2018 and in 2019, NSE joined World Federation of Exchanges Enterprise Risk Management 
Working Group, to further support the formal risk reporting structures and to drive risk management into the 
organisational practice.
Roles and responsibilities
NSE Board and Risk Committee
The NSE Board has constituted the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee to help it to discharge its duties and 
responsibilities with regard to risk management. The committee provides enterprise risk management (ERM) 
oversight by monitoring the implementation of the NSE risk framework and driving corrective actions based 
on the risk reporting provided.
NSE Management
The NSE executive and its management structures are responsible for applying the defined risk management 
process across the enterprise. This is done to enable management to identify potential events that, if they 
occur, will affect the NSE in terms of achieving its enterprise objectives. Risks must be managed within the 
NSE’s set risk appetite.
Risk appetite is a measure and allocation of the amount of risk that the NSE is willing to accept in pursuit of 
its strategy and states that the NSE will only tolerate risks that permit us to:
	
■
achieve our strategic business objectives; 
	
■
comply with all applicable laws and regulations;
	
■
conduct our business in a safe and sound manner; and,
	
■
protect and/or enhance our shareholder value)

37
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Chief Executive Office
The Chief Executive Office, under which the Strategy, Risk and Compliance functions are domiciled, is 
responsible for enterprise risk framework and spearheads implementation and reporting for ERM. This includes:
	
■
defining and implementing the risk process
	
■
facilitating risk workshops as may be deemed necessary;
	
■
ensuring updates to risk reporting at least quarterly
	
■
ensuring risk actions are updated and tracked;
	
■
compiling and presenting report-backs to line management;
	
■
providing formal risk reporting to the NSE executive committee;
	
■
providing risk reporting to the Risk Committee of the Board; and
	
■
entrenching risk management as an effective management tool in the enterprise.
Risk Management Approach
Risk management is conducted using the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO) framework guidelines and is in line with principles defined in ISO 31000. Risks are analysed in the 
context of the NSE risk framework and cover the following categories:
	
■
Operational risk – The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and 
systems, or from external events, in the following areas:
•	 Human capital related
•	 Technology and systems;
•	 Information security;
•	 Fraud and theft;
•	 Procurement and third party;
•	 Contracts management;
•	 Legal and compliance;
•	 Business disruption and continuity;
•	 Regulation of markets;
•	 Market operations;
•	 NSE client concentration;
•	 Strategic arrangements; and
•	 Reputation.

38
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
	
■
Finance risk – This is an umbrella term for any risk associated with any form of financial management 
of the enterprise such as market risk, credit risk, price risk, liquidity risk, capital risk, etc. 
	
■
Strategic risk – This risk is the impact on the organisation arising from adverse business decisions 
and/or the lack of responsiveness to changes.
	
■
Black swan risk – Anticipating and considering low probability (not identified as a possible emerging 
risk on its risk radar) and catastrophic impact events as part of the enterprise’s risk approach. 
A good example of a black swan risk is the Covid-19 pandemic whose impacts are catastrophic and 
their occurrence are extremely rare. Management of a black swan risk requires adequate business 
continuity planning measures which NSE is happy to report have been operationalized successfully.
Risk Management Governance Model 
NSE has successfully deployed the three lines of defense model with Board oversight under the Board Audit, 
Risk and Compliance Committee. See illustration below of how the risk governance model is structured.
Independent challenge to the levels of
assurance provided by business opera-
tions and oversight fanctions
3rd Line of Defence
• External Audit
• Internal Audit
• Other independent review
Oversight functions who also set
directions. deﬁne policy and procedures,
and have functional overshight
2nd Line of Defence
• Oversight functions
• Policies & procedures
Business operation which perform day to
day risk management activity
1st Line of Defence
• Self - assurance
• Business units/teams/  
Processes
Assure
/Monitor
Assure
/Monitor
Perform
Self
Assurance
Perform
Assurance Over
Risk Management
Internal control Assesment
(Business Improvement Focus
Core Risk
Management
The above risk governance model at NSE can be broken down as follows:
	
■
Business areas through the risk champions and risk owners are required to provide risk reporting to 
the risk team in the Strategy, Risk and Compliance Department.
	
■
An enterprise-wide risk report is then compiled by the risk team and presented to NSE Management 
for comment and ratification before the report is submitted to the Risk Management Committee of 
the Board.
	
■
The Risk Management Committee of the Board, in turn, provides assurance to the NSE Board on 
both the acceptability of the NSE’s risk profile as well as the effective functioning of the risk process.

39
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Value Creation Process	
NSE enables value creation by providing a trusted and well-regulated financial market infrastructure to 
support the economy. Our value creation process is embedded in our mission - Linking capital to opportunity 
to enhance stakeholder value.
Core focus of value creation
The ongoing relevance as an exchange and our ability to create long-term value for stakeholders, are 
dependent on various forms of capital/areas of values creation in our finances, technologies, brand equity, 
talent stakeholder relationships and sustainability.
Our Finances
NSE PLC’s funding is sourced from shareholders and internally generated income. These funds are used to 
run NSE’s operations with a view to generate profits.  As at December 31, 2021, these stood at Issued Share 
Capital of Sh. 1,040 million, Share Premium of Sh. 279 million and Retained Earnings of Sh. 746 million. 
Financial resources are required to operate the business and support growth, expansion and innovation. NSE 
balances the need to distribute value to investors through a balanced return to shareholders, reinvestment 
and reduced prices to clients.
Our Technology
At  the  core  of  NSE’s  operations  is  a  robust  ICT  foundation. This comprises three world class trading 
systems for equities (Automated Trading System (ATS)) bonds (Broker Back Office (BBO)) and Derivatives, 
coupled with comprehensive software, hardware and disaster recovery resources. 
In March 2020, NSE successfully migrated its disaster recovery site to a tier 3 contracted data center located 
more than forty kilometers away from the primary data center in Westlands. This transition enabled NSE 
to leverage the benefits of colocation in mature third party data center facility while giving an unmatched 
confidence to our key trading stakeholders on business continuity. In the Cyber Security front, one of the most 
significant initiatives was the engagement of a Managed Security Services (MSS) to complement the internal 
Security Operations Centre (SoC). This enabled NSE to mature its security incidents and events detective and 
response capability.  
Finally, the team spearheaded the migration of the broker wide area network from traditional Multiprotocol 
Label Switched Network (MPLS) to Software defined wide area network (SD-WAN). This project was completed 
in December 2021 and among other benefits enables trading intermediaries to be connected to the NSE sites 
through a fast, highly available, resilient and secure network.
Implementing world-class technology and remaining at the cutting edge of industry advances are core to 
our business model. Investment in new systems and related employee skills can maximize our outputs and 
enhance outcomes for our brand, people and stakeholders.
Our Stakeholder Relationships
NSE actively engages with its key stakeholder groups. 
For example, the Green Bonds Program Kenya (GBPK) has been a key partner in the structuring of the first 
green bond product launched in October 2, 2019. The bond, issued by Acorn group was subscribed by 85% 
and cross-listed in the Nairobi Securities Exchange and the London Stock Exchange. 

40
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
NSE also works closely with the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (UN SSE) to encourage 
sustainable running of stock exchanges. 
It also sits in several working groups of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), influencing global policies 
affecting world exchanges. 
The NSE Investment Challenge and the annual Charity Trading Day are the flagship projects in Social 
Investment. We are able to respond to the needs of our stakeholders and reinforce confidence in our brand 
because we have reliable systems, our people are skilled and client-centered, and we apply our financial 
resources efficiently.
Our Innovation
Innovation is a core value of the NSE. In the wake of Covid-19, investors were enabled to access the market 
via online portals link to trade through the brokers available on our website as well as an enhanced mobile 
application that serves as a gateway to broker apps and online platforms. Moreover, to facilitate continuous 
market awareness, an online e-learning platform was launched for remote training purposes and to act as a 
trading simulator. Additionally, a new Unquoted Securities Platform (USP) was created to facilitate efficient, 
reliable and transparent Over-the-Counter (OTC) Transactions.
NSE continues to explore other global disruptive technologies in a bid to enhance its offering to investors. 
The NSE’s brand includes the technologies and systems in place and the intellectual know-how we need 
to facilitate an efficient and world-class market. The NSE brand relies on technology delivery and positive 
relations with our stakeholders. 
Our Talent (People)
NSE takes pride in its talented staff whose aggregated knowledge and experience enable the company to 
grow and achieve more. The NSE is a specialized organization requiring competent, motivated and diverse 
employees with specialist skills in financial markets technology, governance, risk and financial products 
trading.
We work to attract, develop and retain high caliber employees who are instrumental in the execution of our 
strategy and delivery of world-class markets. 
Total Number of Employees = 42	
    Males = 57%	
  
Females = 43%
                                       
2021
2020
Variance
Sh ‘000
Sh ‘000
%
Revenue
714,267
669,939
6.62%
Stakeholder contribution
Taxes to Government
85,391
19,982
327.34%
Shareholders dividend paid
267,537
23,151
1055.62%
Payment to suppliers
              222,967 
    196,873
13.25%
Human capital
171,841
172,270
-0.25%
Note: Taxes to Government exclude VAT and withholding tax paid for supplier invoices

41
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
NSE 2020 – 2024 Strategy 
Initiatives:
1. Enhance Market Liquidity
2. Increase number of listed companies
3. Develop Derivatives and support growth 
of the Commodities Market
4. Diversification of revenue stream; Trading
Non trading income
5. Improve local market participation
6. Diversity distribution channels
Sustainable Business Growth
Operational Excellence
Initiatives:
1. Improve Operational Efficiencies
2. Strengthen Enterprise Risk 
Management & Compliance
3. Develop NSE as a center of innovation
4. Cost optimization
5. Effective Market Oversight
People
Innovation & 
Technology - 
driven Strategy
Initiatives:
1. Promote a high performance culture
2. Enhance employee engagement
3. Talent Development and succession 
planning
4. Promote diversity equality and inclusion
Strategic Partnership
Initiatives:
1. Strategic acquisitions
2. Strengthen beneficial alliances
3. Targeted Advocacy
4. Strengthen NSE brand perception and
 enhance customer focus
5. Establish partnership with the Government
(Ministry of ICT) and Technology firms

42
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Embark Together
2020
2021
An ambitious journey towards 2024
Taking off: NSE 2020 - 2024 Strategic Intent
2022
2023
2024
Take Off As A Group
Fly As One
Win through leading and long-lasting 
differentiation with members and partners 
as an insight-driven, innovative and digital 
first organization
Vision
Mission
Our Core Values
Sustainable
Business Growth
Integrity
Excellence
Teamwork
Sustainability
Accountability
Operational
Excellence
Strategic 
Partnerships
People
- Innovation & Technology Driven Strategy
To be the leading exchange and the investment partner
of choice through providing efficient investment and
capital raising services in Africa and globally.
Linking capital to opportunity
to enhance stakeholder value.
2020 - 2024 Strategic Direction

43
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Some of the key strategic achievements in 2021 included:
I.	
Additional listings, namely Crown Paints- Rights Issue, 1&M- Bonus Issue, Acorn – Green Bond, and 
Nairobi Business Ventures.
II.	
Corporate bond, namely Family Bank and East African Breweries Limited.
III.	 Unquoted Securities Platform REIT listing by Acorn Holdings Limited.
2020 – 2024 Strategy Implementation Status and the Key focus areas in 2022
I.	
We are in the third year of the 2020 – 2024 Strategic Plan which is centered on 4 pillars – (i) Sustainable 
Business Growth; (ii) Strategic Partnership; (iii). Operational Excellence and, (iv) People.
II.	
In the last year, 2020, we achieved an average implementation of 94% with significant improvements in 
Strategic Partnership, Operational Excellence and People pillars.
III.	 There is more work to be done on Sustainable Business Growth which has initiatives such as enhancing 
market liquidity, increasing number of listed companies, growth of derivatives market, diversification of 
revenues, improving local market participation and distribution channels.
IV.	 In 2022, we will lay focus on growing the market size through targeting listing of large state and corporate 
institutions, cross listings and growth of our SME segment. 
V.	
We continuously engage key stakeholders especially with the Government to encourage privatization 
of publicly owned companies as well as encourage the Government to reduce its shareholding in some 
listed State Owned Enterprises. 
VI.	 In addition, we expect better uptake of our new products which includes derivatives, exchange traded, 
real estate instruments and our recently launched Unquoted Securities platform.
VII.	 We will continue to implement on our business continuity plans which place special focus on ensuring 
uninterrupted market availability to investors and remote access by trading participants, cost optimization 
as well as protecting the health and safety of our staff and market players. 
VIII.	NSE  is leveraging on adoption of various technology enabled platforms to reach out to  more investors 
during this period as we seek to grow our retail investor footprint.  The NSE will also continue participating 
in a number of engagements through various online platforms to enhance investor knowledge on 
opportunities in the market during this period. 

44
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Sustainability Report
NSE Annual Report & 
Financial Statemets
Sustainability
Statement

45
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Sustainability Report
Continued Investment In Sustainability
Our sustainability agenda remains an integral part of the business and a commitment from every function to 
be a responsible corporate citizen and hold ourselves accountable to the communities we operate in.
During the year, we made a conscious effort to advance the sustainability agenda through mitigating the 
devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, championing for reporting excellence through ESG disclosures, 
accelerating diversity and inclusion, upholding corporate governance and promoting green finance. 
As a company, we have moved beyond corporate social responsibility as a business add-on, to mainstream, 
transforming our business to align strategy, structure and other activities to ensure long-term stakeholder 
value in addition to financial returns.
Our Response To Covid-19
The NSE and its market participants were listed as one of critical Financial Institution (FI) by the Government 
thus there was ensured business continuity should the crisis escalate to a total lockdown. We have worked 
extremely hard to ensure that there were no disruptions to any of our operations and put in place measures 
for issuer and investor protection as follows:  
a)	 Support to Staff
	
■
Following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic 
and the Government advisory on measures to help 
mitigate further spread of the virus in the country, 
the NSE Management in consultation with the Board, 
implemented a ‘Work from Home arrangement’ for all 
staff.
Below is an update on the same:
i.	
The NSE successfully activated its enterprise business 
continuity plans (e.g. remote working and possible working 
from alternate sites) to ensure our operational resilience 
and ability to serve our markets, against the backdrop of 
social distancing policies that the government directed.
ii.	 All staff were facilitated to work from home through 
provision of data and airtime allowance.
iii.	 Virtual meetings, using the ‘Teams’ platform, was enabled.
iv.	 The few essential staff who had to work from the office 
were provided with transport to and from the office.
v.	 Provision of face masks and gloves for use by staff at the 
Exchange and emphasis on consistent maintenance of 
hygiene. 
vi.	 Regular communication with the team to ensure that 
everyone was well and keeping safe to help ensure 
psychological and overall wellbeing. 
vii.	 Facilitation of Covid-19 medical cover and provision 
for tests, as may have been required, in addition 
to 
sensitization 
on 
Covid-19 
and 
its 
impact. 
Work From 
Home
facilitated through 
provsion of data 
and airtime
Teams’ 
platform
enabled
Provision
of face 
masks
medical 
cover
Provision of 
Covid-19 testing

46
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Sustainability Report
This was done through various means of communication 
and included an awareness program which was facilitated 
in conjunction with the medical insurance intermediary for 
all staff. 
viii.	Administration of a survey on the ‘Work  from Home’ 
Arrangement to establish the staff experience with this 
arrangement, with a view to identifying areas of challenge 
in order  to come up with mitigation measures to ensure 
optimum support to all staff.  
ix.	 NSE also undertook a Risk Assessment of the Work Place 
with the help of an Occupational Health & Safety (OSH) 
approved Auditor to ensure compliance with the protocols 
as had been issued by the Government ; and 
x.	 Reviewed the OSH Policy Statement to incorporate 
Covid-19 measures.
b)	 Support to Trading Participants
	
■
Trading Participants were enabled to remotely access 
the Equity Trading System over a secure internet virtual 
private networks (VPNs). 
	
■
Trading of Bonds and Derivatives were availed through 
a web based system enabling Trading Participants to 
access the system from any location within Kenya  as 
long as they have a stable internet connection. 
	
■
The NSE continued to offer uninterrupted technology 
and operation support to Trading Participants.
c)	 Support to Investors
	
■
Advised investors to trade online through the respective 
mobile and online trading with a repository for these in 
NSE website through the portal link https://www.nse.
co.ke/trade-on-nse.html.
	
■
NSE remained open with the normal trading hours, to 
preserve the benefits of price formation and access to 
liquidity for the economy.
	
■
The NSE is also closely monitoring capital adequacy and 
liquidity of trading participants to ensure settlement 
and therefore investor protection. 
d)	 Support to Government/Regulators 
	
■
The NSE is worked closely with regulators, service 
providers and various stakeholders in the capital 
markets ecosystem to ensure an integrated approach to 
contingency plans that safeguard integrity, continuity 
and uninterrupted access to the markets.
VPNs
secure internet 
virtual private 
networks
Trading 
enabled
from any location 
within Kenya
Online trading 
through portal
worked closely 
with regulators
to ensure continuity and 
uninterrupted access to 
the markets

47
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Sustainability Report
e)	 Support to Businesses
	
■
The NSE has been very deliberate in supporting micro, 
small and medium enterprises (SMEs) by providing 360 
degrees support in access to finance, capacity building, 
access to markets and laws & policies. The support is 
to ensure the businesses recover, are resilient and grow 
despite the economic shock of COVID-19 pandemic.
	
■
The NSE raised Kshs. 4.8 Million during its annual 
Charity Trading Day to support SMEs withstand the 
shocks of the Covid-19 pandemic through the KEPSA 
Revolving Fund that was established to support SMEs 
in the country. 
f)	
Support to the Markets
	
■
The NSE has risk mitigation measures such as the 
circuit breaker trigger points, currently at 5% drop in 
the benchmark index, the NSE 20 share Index.  Circuit 
breakers trigger temporary halts in trading of securities 
during market volatility to provide investors with a 
brief pause to better understand market conditions and 
make or adjust their trading decisions accordingly.
Our Contribution To The SDGS
GOAL 5
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
TARGET
Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal 
opportunities for leadership
In 2021, the NSE promoted gender diversity through the annual Ring the Bell for Gender Equality, to 
recognize women in leadership and raise awareness on the importance of achieving a gender equal future 
for sustainable development. 
Ensured accessibility of capital market services to female entrepreneurs of all ages through programs such 
as Ibuka and the Growth Enterprise Market Segment.
360o
support and  access to 
finance, markets and 
law policies
4.8 m
raised to support SME’s
Risk mitigation 
measures
such as circuit breaker trigger 
points

48
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Sustainability Report
GOAL 9
Industry Innovation & Infrastructure
TARGET
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialization and foster innovation
Heightened discussions on Green bond issuances by Kenyan Government to list their debut Sovereign Green 
Bond and with County Governments to list social bonds to support various developmental projects.
The NSE participated in the strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework through national 
green bond programmes. These have introduced clear green-bond guidelines and governance, including 
independent certification and monitoring of proceeds, issuing benchmark sovereign green bonds, and 
developing securitization vehicles. 
GOAL 12
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
TARGET
Encourage companies to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate 
sustainability information into their reporting cycle
The NSE provided ESG reporting guidance and offered sector specific training among listed companies. NSE 
is proud to be a part of the growing number of Exchanges publishing their ESG reporting guidance. A total of 
60 out of the 114 stock exchanges, that is 53% tracked by the SSE, have published ESG reporting guidance 
for their listed companies. The gap in guidance on ESG reporting leads to incomplete corporate information, 
creating a challenge for investors seeking a comprehensive view of a company’s material issues. 

49
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Sustainability Report
GOAL 13
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
TARGET
Improve education, awareness raising and human and institutional 
capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact, reduction 
and early warning.
The NSE ensured the development of Green finance initiatives in the markets and raised awareness on the 
importance of a just transition towards a net-zero economy
GOAL 17
Global Partnerships
TARGET
Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development 
complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and 
share knowledge, expertise, technologies and financial resources 
to support the achievement of sustainable development goals in all 
countries.
NSE made a voluntary commitment to become a signatory of the Sustainable Stock Exchange (SSE)’s 
derivatives exchanges network to further the sustainability of financial markets. NSE’s collaboration with 
and contributions to the UN’s SSE Initiative reiterates its commitment to building a new kind of finance, 
shifting paradigms to support a new world view. 
The NSE partnered with AIB-AXYS to launch the University Stock Market Challenge where students were 
trading on the NSE Digital Academy with the aim of increasing financial literacy among the Youth and their 
knowledge of capital markets.

50
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
NSE Annual Report & 
Financial Statemets
Corporate 
Governance
Statement

51
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement
Overview
Corporate governance is at the heart of the structures and processes guiding the leadership of the NSE. 
The NSE has instituted systems to ensure that high standards of corporate governance are maintained at all 
levels of the organization and is in compliance with the requirements of all applicable laws and regulations 
including but not limited to the Capital Markets Act and regulations, rules and guidelines thereunder on 
Corporate Governance and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) regulations, rules, policies and procedures.
The Role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible to the shareholders for the long-term success of the NSE and its strategic 
direction, its values and governance. It provides the leadership, integrity, enterprise and good judgment 
necessary to meet its business objectives within the framework of its internal controls while also discharging 
the company’s obligations to its shareholders.
The Key Responsibilities of the Board include:
	
■
To define and chart out the NSE’s vision and mission. The Board has ultimate responsibility for the 
attainment of the NSE’s vision;
	
■
To set the strategy, approve business plans and annual budgets and of any subsequent material 
changes in strategic direction;
	
■
To monitor Management’s implementation of the strategic plans and financial objectives as defined 
by the Board;
	
■
To define levels of materiality, reserving specific powers to itself and delegating other matters with 
the necessary written authority to Management;
	
■
To ensure that the NSE is managed with a view to ensuring that the company is ethical in all its 
dealings and has put in place sustainable business practices;
	
■
To ensure that procedures and processes are in place to protect the NSE’s’s assets and reputation;
	
■
To ensure compliance by the NSE with all relevant laws and regulations, audit and accounting 
principles, and such other principles as may be established by the Board from time to time;
	
■
To approve Terms of Reference of Board Committees and make appointments and changes in the 
composition of such Committees as are established from time to time;
	
■
To identify key risks for the NSE and establish mechanisms for managing or mitigating them;
	
■
To set policies on internal controls and obtain regular assurance that the system is functioning 
effectively and is effective in managing risks;
	
■
To appoint the Chief Executive and senior management staff; 
	
■
To procure suitable external auditors for shareholders: and
	
■
To exercise such other powers as are necessary to enforce the requirements of the Capital Markets 
Act and regulations and guidelines thereunder, the NSE’s Articles of Association and the internal 
regulations and rules governing the NSE.

52
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued)
Division of Responsibilities
The Chairman and the Chief Executive are responsible for the sustainable operations of the NSE. Their roles 
are separate, with each having distinct and clearly defined roles and responsibilities. The Chairman directs the 
Board’s business and acts as it’s facilitator and guide ensuring that the Board is effective in its tasks of setting 
and implementing the NSE’s direction and strategy. The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, 
for ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and for facilitating the productive contribution of all 
Directors. The Chairman sets the agenda for the Board meetings in consultation with the Chief Executive. The 
Chairman is accountable to the Board for leading the direction of the NSE’s corporate and financial strategy 
and for the overall supervision of the policies, rules and regulations governing the Group.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the business of the NSE. The Chief Executive enforces the 
provisions of the Capital Markets Act (the “Act”) and the rules of the Group and immediately reports any 
violations to the Board and the Capital Markets Authority (“CMA/Authority”) and ensures compliance with 
the requirements of the Act, and rules in operations, transactions and all affairs of the Group including listings 
and continuous reporting obligations of listed companies.
The Chief Executive is also responsible for the supervision of the trading activities of the NSE and takes all 
necessary steps to maintain orderly and efficient trading and functioning of facilities, in accordance with the 
NSE’s  rules and as prescribed by the Act.
The Chief Executive reports periodically to the Board on all matters concerning the operation and affairs 
of the NSE, attends all meetings of the Committees and provides technical input where necessary and 
promotes the objectives and functions of the NSE. The Chief Executive also liaises with the Authority and its 
representatives in respect of administrative, regulatory and technical matters of the NSE. The Chief Executive 
is also responsible for the stewardship of the NSE’s assets and, jointly with the Chairman, for representation 
of the NSE externally.

53
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued) 
Board Composition
As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc is constituted as follows:
a)	Three (3) Independent and Non-Executive Directors; 
b)	One (1) Non-Executive Director
c)	Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Trading Participants;
d)	Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Listed Companies; and
e)	One (1) Executive Director.
Below is the current composition of the Board:
Mr. Kiprono Kittony     
Board Chairman/ Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Paul Mwai
Vice Chairman/ Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Stephen Chege
Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Michael Turner
Independence/ Non-Executive Director
Mr. Donald Wangunyu
Trading Participant/ Non-Executive Director
Ms. Risper Alaro
Listed companies/ Non-Executive Director
Ms. Isis Madison
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Paul Vollant
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo
Chief Executive
Diversity of the NSE Board
7 Male
Gender 
Diversity
2 Female
  

54
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued) 
Board Composition (Continued)
The Board established six (6) Board Committees with delegated authority to assist the Board effectively carry 
out its obligations. These Board Committees are:
a)	Finance and Strategy Committee
b)	Trading Technology Committee
c)	Derivatives Market Oversight Committee
d)	Self-Regulatory Organization and Listing and Admission Committee (SROLA)
e)	Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee
f)	 Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital Committee
Other than the Derivatives Market Oversight Committee and Trading and Technology Committee, both which 
have external resource persons, all other Committees are now composed of Board members only.
There is also the Derivatives Risk Management Committee, which though a sub-committee of the Derivatives 
Market Oversight Committee, has within its membership, one member of the Board, a member of the Audit, 
Risk and Compliance Committee, for purposes of linkage and interface of risk matters between the Audit, Risk 
and Compliance Committee and the Derivatives Risk Management Committee.
At each ordinary Board meeting, the chairpersons of the Board Committees are required to report to the 
Board on the highlights of the deliberations of the Committees and to escalate to the Board all matters 
requiring the Board’s consideration and approval. 
The Board reviews the Committee composition every year to ensure that the Committees have suitable, 
appropriate and relevant skills required to effectively discharge the mandate of the Committees and the 
Board as a whole. The review also aids in incorporating into committees any members who may have retired 
from the Board and also those who may join the Board in the course of the year. The Committee membership 
review took place in June 2021.
At the said review, the Board took into account the criteria for nomination and appointment to the Board, 
the Board skillset and considerations to factor in based on the directors that were retiring/exiting in 2021. 
In view of the retirement of certain Directors, some skills that would fall away and needed to be replaced 
included Investment banking and Stockbroking; Banking and Finance; Accounting; Law, Governance and Fund 
Management. 
The Board was also keen to ensure compliance with the law in respect of the composition of some Committees 
such as the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee which are required to have 2/3 of their members being 
independent directors.
The Committee Terms of Reference are also reviewed on an annual basis to ensure that they are up to date to 
factor in any developments in the organizations strategic direction, operations, industry practice and global 
best practices. The annual review in 2021, took place in August 2021..

55
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued) 
Board Composition (Continued)
Below is a summary of the mandates, functions, membership and activities of the various committees:
	
■
Finance and Strategy Committee
The mandate of the Finance and Strategy Committee is to oversee the implementation of the NSE 
Strategy and strategic business development initiatives of the NSE, including training and to deal 
with all matters relating to the prudent financial management of the NSE, which includes NSE PLC 
subsidiaries, including reviewing and advising on the financial statements and management accounts. 
The Committee also evaluates and advises on potential investment opportunities and also oversees 
procurement at the NSE to ensure compliance with the Procurement manuals and procedures.
	
■
Trading and Technology Committee
The Trading and Technology Committee’s mandate is to assist the Board in relation to trading and 
markets operations, information technology infrastructure, data service provision and dissemination 
of market information to capital markets stakeholders and the general public. The Committee also 
monitors the state of technology capabilities within NSE and identifies and manages the associated 
risks and opportunities that could have significant impact in the organization’s operations
	
■
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 
The Derivatives Market Oversight Committee advises the Board on the oversight of, and strategic 
issues relating to the NSE’s Derivatives Market and the Derivatives Clearing House including 
addressing conflict of interest matters regarding futures brokers, issues arising in the design of 
derivatives contracts and undertaking trading and surveillance functions.
	
■
Self-Regulatory Organization Listing and Admission Committee (SROLA)
The mandate of the Self-Regulatory Organization Committee is to enforce the NSE Market Participants 
Business Conduct and Enforcement Rules, 2014, the Listing Rules, Continuous Listing Obligations 
Regulations, the Derivatives Rules, the NSE Trading Rules and any other Regulations or Rules of the 
NSE as are in force, as may be necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market and to 
ensure compliance with any other capital market legislation and the enforcement powers of which 
have been delegated to the SRO function of the NSE.
Listing and Admissions Committee and Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) Committee were merged 
on 9 June 2021.

56
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued) 
Board Composition (Continued)
	
■
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 
The mandate of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee is to monitor, review and make 
recommendations to the Board on the adequacy of NSE’s internal control, internal and external audit 
programs, risk management and compliance monitoring systems and to monitor the organization’s 
Corporate Governance practices including compliance with relevant laws, regulations and rules in 
respect of the NSE’s business.
	
■
Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital Committee
The Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital Committee advises and assists the Board 
in effective discharge of its responsibilities in relation to the composition of the Board and its 
remuneration, and to establish a plan of continuity for the Chief Executive as appropriate. The 
Committee also advises, implements and assists the Board in effective discharge of its responsibilities 
in relation to Human Capital Management. 
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued)

57
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Director
Classification
Designation
 
Board
Finance & 
Strategy 
Committee
Trading, 
Technology 
& 
Innovation 
Committee
Audit, 
Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee
Listings & 
Admissions 
Committee
Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
(SRO) 
Committee
Remuneration, 
Nominating & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Derivatives 
Market 
Oversight 
Committee
Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
& Listing 
Committee
K Kittony
Non-executive
Chairman - 
Board
Membership
✓
Attendance
6/6
B Karina
****
Non-executive
Membership
*
*
*
*
*
Attendance
H Kili
****
Non-executive
Membership
*
*
*
*
*
Attendance
3/3
1/2
2/2
2/2
2/2
M Turner
Non-executive
Chairman 
-  Finance 
& Strategy  
Committee
Membership
✓
✓
✓ *
✓
✓ 
*
✓**
Attendance
6/6
4/4
2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2
D Wangunyu
***
Non-executive
Chairman 
– Trading, 
Technology 
& Innovation 
Committee
Membership
✓
✓**
✓**
Attendance
3/3
2/2
2/2
S Chege
***
Non-executive
Membership
✓
✓**
✓**
✓**
Attendance
3/3
2/2
2/2
1/2
* Stepped down from the Committee on 3 June 2021 
** Appointed to the Committee on 3 June 2021 *** Appointed to the Board on 3 June 2021
**** Stepped down from the Board on 3 June 2021
Board & Board Committees’ Membership And Number Of Meetings Held And Attended In 2021 
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued)

58
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Director
Classification
Designation
 
Board
Finance & 
Strategy 
Committee
Trading, 
Technology 
& 
Innovation 
Committee
Audit, 
Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee
Listings & 
Admissions 
Committee
Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
(SRO) 
Committee
Remuneration, 
Nominating & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Derivatives 
Market 
Oversight 
Committee
Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
& Listing 
Committee
N Devji
****
Non-executive
Membership
*
*
*
Attendance
2/3
2/2
2/2
P Vollant
Non-executive
 
Membership
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓**
Attendance
6/6
4/4
2/2
4/5
1/2
R Alaro
*
Non-executive
Chairperson - 
Audit, Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee, & 
Remuneration 
Nominating & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Membership
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓**
Attendance
6/6
5/5
2/2
5/5
   1/2
P Mwai
Non-executive 
Vice Chairman 
- Board
Membership
✓
✓
✓
✓*
✓**
✓
6/6
4/4
4/4
3/3
2/2
4/4
S Kimani
****
Non-executive
Membership
*
*
*
*
Attendance
1/3
2/2
2/2
2/2
3/3
I Madison
Non-executive
 Chairperson 
– Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
& Listing 
Committee
Membership
✓
✓
✓**
✓
✓
✓**
✓**
Attendance
6/6
4/4
2/2
5/5
2/2
2/2
2/2
G Odundo
 
Chief 
Executive
Membership
Attendance
6/6
4/4
4/4
5/5
2/2
2/2
5/5
4/4
2/2
* Stepped down from the Committee on 3 June 2021** Appointed to the Committee on 3 June 2021
*** Appointed to the Board on 3 June 2021
**** Stepped down from the Board on 3 June 2021 	
The chief Executive does not form the quorum for Board Committee meetings and attends by invitation.
Board & Board Committees’ Membership And Number Of Meetings Held And Attended In 2021
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued)

59
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued) 
Board Committees’ Membership And Number Of Meetings 
Held And Attended In The Year 2021 Board Committees With 
External Resource Persons
1.	 Derivatives Market Oversight Committee
Name
Nature of Participation
Attendance
J. Swai
Chairperson 
4/4
E. Kigen
Member
4/4
A. Mulisa
Member
3/4
2.	Trading, Technology and Innovation Committee
Name
Nature of participation
 Attendance
I. Onyango*
Member
2/2
J. Waiguru
Member
4/4
F. Moturi*
Member
1/2
F. Mwangi*
Member
2/2
E. Kihanda
Member
4/4
*Stepped down from the committee on 3 June 2021

60
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued)
Nairobi Securities Exchange Corporate Governance Fact Sheet
Number of Board Members
9
Number of Independent Non-Executive Directors
3
Number of Non-Executive Directors
1
Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Trading Participants
2
Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Listed Companies
2
Number of Executive Directors
1
Number of women on the Board
2
Separate Chairman and CEO
Yes
Terms of Reference for Board Committees
Yes
Independent Audit Committee
Yes
Number of financial experts on Audit Committee
2
Number of Board Meetings held in 2021
6
Number of Annual General Meetings in 2021
1
Re-election of Directors in accordance with Articles of Association
Yes
Board Induction Programs conducted
Yes

61
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued) 
Capital Structure
a)	 Share capital
The authorized and issued share capital of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC consists of only ordinary shares as 
disclosed in note 24 to the financial statements.
b)	 Top 20 Shareholders at 31 December 2021
No  Shareholder
Number of shares
%
1.	 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE004468
41,764,400
16.06%
2.	 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE22446
27,115,973
10.43%
3.	 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE003414
14,356,494
5.52%
4.	 Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030823
12,523,399
4.82%
5.	 Stanbic Nominees Ltd AC NR1031436
9,871,233
3.80%
6.	 The Investor Compensation Fund Board
8,750,000
3.37%
7.	 The Permanent Secretary to The Treasury
8,750,000
3.37%
8.	 Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030824
8,397,067
3.23%
9.	 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE22816
7,247,499
2.79%
10.	Sterling Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
11.	Nyaga Stock Brokers Ltd
7,000,000
2.69%
12.	Discount Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
13.	ABC Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
14.	Kingdom Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
15.	Renaissance Capital (Kenya) Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
16.	Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1031142
6,879,090
2.65%
17.	Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Limited
4,300,000
1.65%
18.	Africa Allied investors Ltd
4,236,300
1.63%
19.	NCBA Investment Bank
3,500,000
1.35%
20.	Old Mutual Securities Ltd
2,215,700
0.85%
Top 20 shareholders
201,907,155
77.66%
Others
58,097,165
22.34%
Total issued shares
260,004,320
==========
100.00%
======

62
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued)
Capital Structure (Continued)
c)	 Distribution of Shareholders at 31 December 2021
Number of Shareholders
  Number of shares
%
Less than 500
2,967
506,320
0.195%
501 – 5,000
9,286
12,384,665
4.763%
5,001 – 10,000
624
4,507,376
1.734%
10,001 – 100,000
629
16,089,088
6.188%
100,001 – 1,000,000
46
11,336,016
4.360%
Above 1,000,000
28
______
215,180,855
__________
82.760%
________
Total 
13,580
=====
260,004,320
=========
100%
=======

63
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued)
Capital Structure (Continued) 
d)	 Shareholder Analysis by Domicile at 31 December 2021
Number of Shareholders
Number of shares
%
Individual investors
Local
12,773
34,363,707
12.34%
East African
85
249,871
0.10%
Foreign
107
____
4,712,431
__________
1.47%
_______
12,965
39,326,009
13.91%
Institutional investors
Local
593
86,614,596
35.20%
East African
5
3,833
0.02%
Foreign
17
134,059,882
50.87%
615
220,678,311
86.09%
Total
13,580
======
260,004,320
=========
100%
=====
e)	 Directors Holding Shares at 31 December 2021
Number of shares
%
Mr. Paul Vollant
1,460,000
0.562%
Mr. Geoffrey Odundo
49,000
0.019%
Mr. Stephen Chege
15,467
_______
0.006%
_______
Total
1,524,467
=======
0.586%
======

64
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Policy Statements
Code of Corporate Governance Principles
The Board and Management of the NSE have put in place deliberate effort towards full compliance with 
the Capital Markets Code of Corporate Governance Practice for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 (the 
“Code”).
In compliance with the Code, NSE conducted a Governance Audit and the Legal & Compliance Audit in 2018 
through Strategic Business Solutions International Limited (SBSIL). All recommendations made during the 
audit were fully implemented. 
However, NSE is planning to do a Legal and Governance audit in 2022 in line with amendments to The Code 
of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 through circular no.1 of 2020 
released by the Capital Markets Authority on January 2, 2020.
After further consultations & engagements with the stakeholders, taking into account the issues raised and 
wider stakeholders’ interests, the Authority will be amending the Code in order to reschedule the governance 
audits to at least once in every 2 years with the option of the Authority increasing or decreasing the cycle based 
on a risk based approach. In all cases, in any period in which a governance audit has not been undertaken, the 
issuer will be required to detail the progress made in implementing prior audit recommendations.
Board Charter
The Board of Directors of the NSE regard corporate governance as key to the achievement of NSE’s mission 
and vision, and is committed to applying the core governance principles.
The NSE Board Charter outlines the;
a)	 Roles, functions, responsibilities and powers of the Board, individual directors and the officials and 
executives of the NSE;
b)	 Powers delegated to various Board Committees of the NSE; and
c)	 Policies and practices of the Board in respect of matters such as corporate governance, trading by directors, 
declarations and conflicts of interest, Board meeting documentation and procedures and the nomination 
of directors, training and evaluation of directors and members of Board committees.
Whilst the Board Charter includes references to minimum acceptable standards of conduct, the Board 
embraces global best practices in this regard.
Board Diversity
The NSE Board has put in place a policy to ensure the achievement of diversity in its composition. The 
Remuneration and Nominating Committee assesses the required skills mix and expertise for the executive 
directors as well as Independent and Non-Executive Directors. The Board considers factors such as: size, 
qualifications, technical expertise, relevant industry knowledge, experience, nationality, age, gender and 
other demographics with a view to enhancing effectiveness.

65
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued)
Corporate Governance Policy Statements 
(Continued)
NSE promotes diversity by championing Gender Equality, alongside other exchanges, investors, private sector 
and regulators.
The Board Profiles on pages 22 has more details on size, age, gender, qualifications among other factors.
Board Induction and Training
The NSE Board has established a formal induction program for the Board. All Board members receive induction 
on joining the Board and are updated on the various skills and knowledge at regular intervals.
Board members are provided with necessary orientation in the areas of the Company’s business (the Company’s 
operations, product offerings, regulatory framework and the business environment) in order to enhance their 
effectiveness. They are also introduced to their fiduciary duties and responsibilities.
The Board has also put in place training programs for the members.
Board Remuneration
The NSE Board has established formal and transparent remuneration policies to attract and retain both 
Executive and Non-Executive Board members. These policies clearly state remuneration elements such as 
Directors’ fees and attendance allowances that are competitive and in line with the industry practice. Non-
Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every meeting attended.
The Company does not grant any personal loans, guarantees, share options or long term incentives to its Non-
Executive Directors. Neither are the Non-Executive Directors eligible for provident fund. The company has 
taken out insurance covers for the non- executive Directors covering Directors and Officers liability insurance 
cover and group personal accident covering death, permanent total disability and medical expenses.
The Chief Executive is the only Executive Director on the Board and the company has in place a remuneration 
policy which is aimed at ensuring compensation is competitive and aligned to the company’s strategic 
objectives.
Code of Ethics and Conduct
The Company has a Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy. All Board members and NSE employees are required 
to uphold the highest standards of integrity, ethical standards and excellence in line with NSE’s core values of 
Integrity, Excellence, Teamwork, Sustainability, and Accountability. The performance on ethics has been good 
and is monitored periodically with all staff having to sign the Annual Code of Conduct Attestations.
NSE recognizes that ethical business brings sustainable business. We are committed to playing a proactive 
role in a globally competitive and prosperous nation operating on ethical business standards as evidenced by 
our involvement in various ethical and sustainable initiatives such as the UN Global Compact, being signatory 
the Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya among others.

66
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued) 
Corporate Governance Policy Statements 
(Continued) 
Whistleblowing
The NSE Board has put in place a Whistleblowing Policy that recognizes the difficulty its stakeholders may 
face in raising their concerns with regards to the Company operations. 
The Policy protects every employee and business partner who raises a concern in good faith. The Company 
will treat every concern raised by an employee in good faith seriously and in a confidential manner and does 
not retaliate or allow any retaliation or discrimination by its employees of any kind against any employee who 
raises a concern in good faith.
Stakeholders can raise their concerns with the relevant Company officials and/or through the available 
reporting channels. Staff and other stakeholders are regularly sensitized on the need to report any suspected 
unethical business practices and procedure to make such reports. The summary of this policy is available in 
our website.
Insider Dealing
The NSE has an insider trading policy guided by Sections 32A – 33 of Part VI of the Capital Markets Act 
(Cap 485A) which prohibits insider trading. The policy provides procedures and guidelines with respect to 
transactions in the NSE securities, the protection of Insider Information and the standard of conduct expected 
of the NSE directors, officers and employees.  Internal stakeholders are made aware that they ought not to 
trade in the Company’s shares while in possession of any insider information that is not available to the public 
or during a closed period. NSE’s closed period covers between 1st January until publication of full year results 
and 1st July until publication of half year results.
Conflict of Interest
The Board has put in place a policy to manage conflict of interest. As a procedure, Directors declare any 
real or perceived conflict of interest with the Company and such disclosures are reflected in the Minutes of 
the Board and Committee’s meeting. The Company Secretary maintains and updates the register of declared 
conflict of interest. The Board is appraised on the statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have or may 
have interests that conflict with those of the Company.
All business transactions with Board members or their related parties are carried out at arms’ length. In 
practice, there is an acknowledgement that if it comes to the attention of a Board member that a matter 
concerning the Company may result in a conflict of interest, the Board member is obligated to declare and 
exclude himself/herself from any deliberations, voting or decision over the matter in conflict.
Enterprise Risk Management
The objective of the NSE’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework is to protect shareholders’ value in 
order to enhance NSE’s competitive advantage, improve business performance and optimize risk management 
and compliance value. The framework is aligned to ISO 31000:2018 Risk Management Guidelines, COSO 
Enterprise Risk Management 2017 as well the applicable laws, regulations and guidelines.
(More notes on page 37 - 44)

67
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance Statement (Continued)
Corporate Governance Policy Statements 
(Continued)
Information and Communication Technology
The NSE leverages heavily on technology to deliver its core mandate of delivering a world class trading 
platform.
The NSE Board has prioritized cyber security and related Information Technology risks. To ensure 
confidentiality, integrity and availability of the various platforms, the Exchange has adopted the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology Cyber Security Framework as the back bone of its Information and 
Communication Technology (ICT) and Cyber Security policies. Being a full member of the World Federation 
of Exchange (WFE), the NSE is constantly benchmarking with international best practices as well and has 
tailored the policy framework relevant to securities trading.
The Exchange has in place relevant ICT policies, procedures as well as enforcing the practices that are 
congruent to these policies.
The Management and staff are actively driving a cyber security conscious culture within the organization. 
There is commensurate investment in setting up controls and monitoring tools to assure the various 
stakeholders of security in access and use of the ICT assets of the organization.
Procurement Policy
We have in place a robust Procurement Policy that ensures appropriate risk assurance, integrity in all 
procurement activities, consistency across the organizations purchasing practices and openness and 
transparency of decision making when dealings with suppliers/service providers.
The policy is based on notable principles: namely, value for money, open and fair competition, risk 
management, accountability and building mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers. A Management 
Tender Committee oversees the award of tenders and reports to the Finance and Strategy Committee of the 
Board based on the limits as set out in the Procurement Policy and Procedures.

68
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Directors Remuneration
NSE Annual Report & 
Financial Statemets
Directors’
Remuneration

69
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Directors Remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Information Not Subject To Audit
Statement of Group’s policy on directors’ remuneration 
a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
The Board establishes and approves formal and transparent remuneration policies to attract and retain 
both executive and non-executive Board members. These policies clearly state remuneration elements 
such as Directors’ fees and attendance allowances that are competitive and in line with the industry. 
Non-Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every meeting attended. They are not eligible 
for provident fund membership. The Company does not grant any personal loans, guarantees, share 
options or long term incentives to its non-executive Directors. The company has taken out insurance 
covers for the non-executive Directors covering Directors and Officers liability insurance cover and 
group personal accident covering death, permanent total disability and medical expenses.
The Chief Executive is the only executive director on the Board and the company has in place 
a remuneration policy which is aimed at ensuring compensation is competitive and aligned to the 
company’s strategic objectives. The Executive Director’s remuneration and benefits consists of:-
 
	
■
A monthly salary determined on appointment  
	
■
An annual bonus based on the performance of the company, individual performance and general 
inflation considerations.
	
■
Contributory staff provident scheme
	
■
Non-cash benefits relating to a company-maintained vehicle and insurance cover.
There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration policy during the year 2021.
b)	 NSE Clear Limited
A managing director or other executive officer shall receive such remuneration (whether by way of 
salary, commission or participation in profits, or partly in one way and partly in another) as the directors 
may determine.
There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration policy during the year 2021. 

70
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Directors Remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report (Continued)
Information Not Subject To Audit (Continued)
c)	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE 
Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF)
In accordance with the Trust Deed of the Funds, the Board of Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints 
the trustees of the Fund subject to approval by the CMA. The number of trustees is set at a minimum 
of Three (3).  Any person, whether or not domiciled, resident or carrying on business or in the case of a 
body corporate carrying on business in Kenya may be appointed and hold office as a trustee.
There were no substantial changes to the trustees’ remuneration policy during the year 2021.
Contract of service
a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
In accordance with Article 93 of the Articles  of Association of the Company, unless and until otherwise 
from time to time determined by an ordinary resolution of the Company, but always subject to the 
provisions of the Kenyan Companies Act (the Act) and the Capital Markets Act (CMA) regulations, the 
number of Directors (including the Chief Executive and excluding alternates) shall not be less than 
Seven (7) and not more than Eleven (11) in number and shall be elected in accordance with the Act, the 
Capital Markets Act and the Company’s Articles of Association.
Two Directors are elected by the members from among or to represent the trading participants and a 
further two Directors are elected by the members from among nominees of companies listed on the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange to represent the said listed companies. Any other directors are elected by 
the members in accordance with the Companies Act provided that at all times at least one third of the 
Directors must be non-executive Directors.
If at any time the number of Directors falls below the minimum number fixed by or in accordance with 
the Company’s Articles of Association, the remaining Directors may act for the purpose of convening 
a general meeting or for the purpose of bringing the number of Directors to such minimum, and for no 
other purpose
The Non-Executive Directors are not under contract but are subject to retirement by rotation at the 
Annual General Meeting (AGM). CMA regulations provide for fixed terms of office for the company’s 
Chairman and Chief Executive, which shall include a maximum term of office of two consecutive years 
for the Chairman and four years renewable once for the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive’s contract within the period under review is for the second term for a Four (4) years 
period running from 1 March 2019. Under the terms of the contract, either party may, not less than 
six months to the expiry of this contract, notify the other of their intention not to extend the contract, 
otherwise the contract shall be automatically renewed for a further final period of four years. Either 
Party may also terminate the Agreement without assigning any reasons, at any time, by giving to the 
other not less than six months’ notice in writing, or six months’ salary in lieu of notice, at the end of 
which the Agreement shall determine.

71
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Directors Remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report (Continued)
Information Not Subject To Audit (Continued)
b)	 NSE Clear
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles), the directors have power at 
any time, and from time to time, to appoint any person to be a director, either to fill a casual vacancy, 
or as an addition to the existing directors, but so that the total number of directors shall not at any time 
exceed the number fixed in accordance with the Articles. Any director so appointed shall hold office 
until he is removed or his office is vacated, in each case in accordance with these Articles.
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of their body to the office of managing 
director, or to any other executive office under the Company, for such period and on such terms as they 
think fit, and, subject to the terms of any agreement entered into in any particular case, may revoke 
such appointment. The appointment of such managing director or other executive officer shall be 
automatically determined if he ceases from any cause to be a director. 
Other than the Managing Director, the Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at every Annual 
General Meeting (AGM).
c)	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE 
Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF)
The Trustees are not under contract. The office of a trustee becomes vacant if: the trustee resigns with 
a one month’s notice; becomes mentally or physically incapacitated; or by removal by the Board of 
NSE Clear Limited by a resolution.  A trustee can also retire at any time by giving a three (3) months 
written notice to the Board. In the event of the number of trustees falling below three, the Board shall, 
subject to the approval of the CMA, appoint such additional trustees as shall be necessary to make their 
number upto three, save where there is appointed a sole corporate trustee.
Statement of voting on the Directors’ remuneration report at the 
Previous Annual General Meeting
a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
During the Annual General Meeting held on 3rd June 2021, the shareholders approved the fees paid to 
the Directors fees for the year ended 31st December 2020 by show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3rd June 2022, approval will be sought from shareholders 
for the fees paid to the Directors for the financial year ended 31st December 2021.
b)	 NSE Clear Limited 
During the Annual General Meeting held on 13th May 2021, the shareholders approved the fees paid to 
the Directors for the year ended 31st December 2020 by show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11th May 2022, approval will be sought from shareholders 
for the fees paid to the Directors for the financial year ended 31st December 2021.
c)	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE 
Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF)
The Funds do not hold annual general meetings. The fees for the Trustees are approved by the NSE 
Clear Limited Board.

72
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Directors Remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report (Continued)
Information Subject To Audit
The following table shows a single figure remuneration for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and Executive 
Director in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31st December 2021 together with the comparative 
figures for 2020. 
Year ended 31 December 2021
Name
Category
Fees
Sitting 
allowances
Gross pay 
+ other 
allowances
Provident 
scheme 
contribution
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kiprono Kittony
Non-Executive
1,200,000
565,714
-
-
1,765,714
Bob Karina*
Non-Executive
480,000
821,429
-
-
1,301,429
Hosea Kili
Non-Executive
360,000
564,286
-
-
924,286
Isis Madison
Non-Executive
720,000
1,257,142
-
-
1,977,142
Nasim Devji
Non-Executive
360,000
328,571
-
-
688,571
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
720,000
1,042,857
-
-
1,762,857
Paul Vollant
Non-Executive
720,000
942,857
-
-
1,662,857
Paul Mwai*
Non-Executive
840,000
1,371,429
-
-
2,211,429
Risper Alaro
Non-Executive
720,000
1,214,286
-
-
1,934,286
Samuel Kimani*
Non-Executive
360,000
678,571
-
-
1,038,571
Donald Wangunyu
Non-Executive
360,000
435,714
-
-
795,714
Stephen Chege
Non-Executive
360,000
371,428
-
-
731,428
Geoffrey Odundo
Executive
-
-
24,589,136
2,222,400
26,811,536
–––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
7,200,000
9,594,284
24,589,136
2,222,400
43,605,820
=======
========
=========
========
========
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2021 is amounts relating to fees earned for services 
rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below:

73
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Directors Remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report (Continued)
Information Subject To Audit (Continued)
Sitting Allowances
NSE Clear
IPF
SGF
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Samuel Kimani
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
Bob Karina
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
Paul Mwai
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
–––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
171,429
171,429
171,429
514,287
=======
========
========
=======
Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit).
Year ended 31 December 2020 
Name
Category
Fees
Sitting 
allowances
Gross pay 
+ other 
allowances
Provident 
scheme 
contribution
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kiprono Kittony
Non-Executive
960,000
888,571
-
-
1,848,571
Bob Karina*
Non-Executive
960,000
1,771,429
-
-
  2,731,429 
Hosea Kili*
Non-Executive
720,000
1,214,285
-
-
1,934,285
Isis Nyong’o
Non-Executive
720,000
1,371,428
-
-
   2,091,428 
Nasim Devji
Non-Executive
720,000
814,285
-
-
   1,534,285
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
720,000
1,271,429
-
-
   1,991,429
Paul Vollant*
Non-Executive
720,000
1,285,714
-
-
   2,005,714 
Paul Mwai
Non-Executive
720,000
1,285,714
-
-
   2,005,714 
Risper Alaro
Non-Executive
720,000
1,342,857
-
-
   2,062,857 
Samuel Kimani
Non-Executive
960,000
1,291,428
-
-
   2,251,428 
Geoffrey Odundo
Executive
-
-
22,662,500
2,222,400
 24,884,900 
––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
7,920,000
12,530,740
22,662,500
2,222,400
45,342,040
=======
========
========
========
========
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2020 is amounts relating to fees earned for 
services rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below:

74
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Directors Remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report (Continued)
Information Subject To Audit (Continued)
Sitting Allowances
NSE Clear
IPF
SGF
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Samuel Kimani
114,286
114,286
114,286
342,857
Bob Karina
114,286
114,286
114,286
342,857
Paul Vollant
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
Hosea Kili
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
–––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
–––––––––
342,858
342,858
342,858
1,028,572
=======
========
========
=======
Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit).
Mr. Kuria Waithaka
Secretary
29 March 2022

75
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Cash And Derivatives Market Report
NSE Annual Report & 
Financial Statemets
Cash & 
Derivatives
Market Report

76
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Cash And Derivatives Market Report
Cash And Derivatives 
Market Report For The 
Year Ended 
31 December 2021
The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) remained resilient 
in a gradually improving operating environment following 
a challenging prior FY20 following the outbreak and 
spread of the COVID-19 Pandemic.  
Following a contraction in real Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) in the FY20, FY21 recorded significant 
improvements supported by rebounds in various sectors 
specifically trade, transport, services and industry. The 
rebound came against a backdrop of improving private 
consumptions, employment conditions and household 
incomes.  The improvements in both the demand and the 
supply side enhanced economic performance in the year 
with the World Bank estimating a 5.0 percent growth in 
real GDP in the FY21.
During the period under review, Management prioritised 
delivering key objectives of the sustainable business 
growth pillar of the Group’s 2020-2024 Strategic Plan. 
The cash market and derivatives report will outline 
our achievements in the period under review and 
demonstrate our ability to develop innovative solutions 
to enable issuers and investors raise and deploy capital 
in Kenya.
As I will highlight in this report, Management delivered 
a promising performance setting momentum for a 
strong recovery in our Cash and Derivatives market 
business lines. 
Main Board Listings
Management actively engaged both the private and 
public sector in an effort to seek listings. 
On the private sector space, Management had a number 
of roadshow engagements with local corporates on 
the opportunities available in the capital markets. 
Management is confident that these long term efforts 
while raising the much needed awareness and required 
capital market knowledge will gradually bear the much 
needed corporate listings. 
Management further engaged with the National Treasury 
and the Privatization Commission on the development 
of a deal pipeline to support the Government’s funding 
objectives. Management will continue to engage and it 
is our hope that the incoming administration will heed 
the call to tap into the equities market, critically as well 
to help in the achievement of the objective of moving 
Kenya into an emerging market.
Increased Momentum 
on the Corporate Bond 
Market
The year under review marked yet another recovery 
period for the corporate bond market. The market 
continued its strong performance underscoring its 
attractiveness as a preferred capital raising avenue for 
enterprises seeking debt capital in Kenya. 
The bond market attracted four additional listings 
bringing the total number of outstanding corporate 
bonds to five. The issuers included Centum Real Estate, 
Family Bank, East Africa Breweries Limited and the 
Kenya Mortgage Refinance Company who collectively 
raised Kshs. 18 Billion. 
The offers equally enjoyed a positive performance 
with three of the four issues enjoying record 
oversubscriptions. The performance is a testament of 
Terrence Adembesa
Chief Business Officer (former)

77
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Cash And Derivatives Market Report
the markets depth and ability to support issuers raise 
significant amount of debt capital from the market. 
Management continues to engage potential issuers in 
the bond market to increase opportunities for investors 
and enable companies raise capital. 
Taking Leadership in 
the Unquoted Market in 
Kenya
In FY21, the NSE launched the Unquoted Securities 
Market (USP), a world class market infrastructure aimed 
at facilitating the trading, clearing and settlement of 
unquoted securities in Kenya. The launch of this market 
infrastructure sought to address legacy concerns in the 
unquoted market such as inefficiencies in the transfer 
of securities, lack of liquidity as well as inability to 
raise capital effectively for unlisted companies.  The 
USP offers an automated solution that will enable the 
market grow and thrive.
Since its launch, the USP has quoted two Real Estate 
Investment Trusts (REITs); the Acorn-Acorn Student 
Accommodation (ASA) Development REIT and the ASA 
Income REIT. 
Through the USP, the two REITs have attracted 
domestic retail and institutional investors evidenced 
by the high volume of shares traded over the review 
period. Collectively, the two REITs traded shares worth 
17,740,500 valued at 362,945,922 in the year 2021. 
The performance cements our product ability to address 
challenges in the unquoted market in its first year of 
launch. 
This year, Management seeks to connect more issuers 
to capital through this platform whilst enhancing 
efficiencies in the transfer of securities in the unquoted 
markets. Management is working towards extending 
these solutions to unlisted financial sector players as 
well as leading private enterprises.
The Exchange hopes that the USP will equally provide a 
strong pipeline of companies that will graduate to the 
main market segments.
Raising Additional 
Capital through the 
Equity Market 
In the year under review manufacturer, Crown Paints 
PLC raised Kshs. 642 Million in their rights issue 
recording an oversubscription of 13.7 percent. 
Building Pipeline through 
the Ibuka Program
In recognition of the challenges companies face, the 
NSE developed Ibuka, an incubation and acceleration 
program aimed at preparing companies to list or access 
other capital raising options available through the NSE. 
Through the program, Ibuka registered companies 
have enjoyed bespoke advisory services supporting 
them to restructure various aspects of their businesses 
in preparation of future capital raises on our debt or 
equity markets.
In the FY21, Management admitted four companies 
on the program including Ashleys Kenya Limited, 
Automobile Association of Kenya, Ruai Family Hospital 
and Optiven Group.
Currently, two of the companies in the program are in the 
process of selecting transaction advisors in preparation 
of their listing and/or capital raises whilst five have 
applied to join the Unquoted Securities Platform.
Exchange Traded Funds 
As investors globally continue to shift from active 
investments to passive investments, the NSE continues 
to position itself to support investors deploy capital 
passively through Exchange Traded Funds.  
According to Refinitiv Lipper Data, global exchange 
traded funds received a record   USD 1.22 Trillion in 
inflows last year. The record growth in assets tracking 
passive investments through ETFs is an indicator of 
future trends in preference by investors.  

78
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Cash And Derivatives Market Report
High returns, low costs as well as transparency continue 
to attract investments in ETFs globally and there is 
growing demand for similar investment products in 
Kenya. 
As a market anchored on meeting local investor demands 
while positioning to leverage future trends, the NSE 
launched the Exchange Traded Fund in FY17 with the 
first ETF, the ABSA Gold ETF listed on the market. 
In the year under review, the listed ETF continued its 
impressive performance driven by heightened demand 
by investors seeking to hedge against price volatility 
in equity markets as uncertainty driven by variant 
COVID-19 viruses increased in the year.
Management is currently engaging various international 
issuers to issue ETFs tracking performance of various 
off-shore securities as well as the index. Management 
is equally working closely with other market players to 
enhance knowledge and awareness of the product.
Real Estate Investment 
Trusts
Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) continue to attract 
issuers specifically property developers and property 
owners in Kenya. In the year under review, two new 
REIT schemes were approved by the Capital Markets 
Authority providing momentum for growth of REITs as 
an alternative to raising capital.
Management is currently engaging leading property 
developers and entrepreneurs to launch and list REITs. 
 The following members were active in the NSE 
derivatives market (NEXT) in 2021; AIB-AXYS Africa Ltd 
(AIBC), Genghis Capital Ltd (GENC), Kingdom Securities 
Ltd (KING), Standard Investment Bank (STIB), Sterling 
Capital Ltd (STER), Faida Investment Bank Ltd (FINB), 
NCBA Investment Bank Ltd (NICS), EGM Securities Ltd 
(EGMS), and NCBA Custody (NICC) all trading under the 
Co-operative Bank (K) Ltd as their clearing bank. Notably, 
EGM Securities Ltd joined the market during the year 
becoming the first non-dealing online forex broker to 
offer NSE derivatives securities.
The 2021 period saw the introduction of market making 
in the derivatives market which significantly boosted 
trading activity. Turnover for 2021 stood at Kshs. 289 
million representing a gain of over 600% compared to 
2020 (Kshs. 40 million) while average daily turnover 
stood at Kshs. 1.2 million representing a 380% gain 
over 2020 (Kshs. 0.25 million).
In terms of securities traded, Safaricom Plc (SCOM), 
Equity Group Holdings Plc (EQTY) and KCB Group 
Plc (KCBG) were the most actively traded securities 
by turnover accounting for 81% of total turnover. 
This reflected similar trading patterns observed in the 
equites market with investors seeking additional returns 
in the derivatives market by trading the aforementioned 
futures contracts to take advantage of various market 
events affecting the securities.
Open interest, which represents the total number of 
outstanding positons held by investors in the market, 
peaked at 939 contracts worth approximately Kshs. 36 
million in 2021 up from previous highs of 468 contracts 
worth Kshs. 15.6 million. This increase was supported 
by improved confidence by investors in taking up larger 
positions as market liquidity grew.
Overall, the market continued to be retail dominated 
thanks to the relative ease of onboarding retail clients 
and the segment’s speed and willingness to test new 
products. The market was also supported by increased 
participation by high net worth clients and multi-asset 
balanced funds with flexible investment mandates that 
took advantage of the leveraged returns offered by the 
derivatives market. 
The Exchange will continue to engage key stakeholders 
in order to continue to grow the market. The team will 
specifically focus on:
Enhancing awareness, knowledge and training of 
key market participants and the wider investment 
community;
Engaging administrators, trustees and fund managers 
to address the need to update Investment Policy 

79
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Cash And Derivatives Market Report
Statements that govern local institutional assets; and
Onboarding of online trading members who have 
built a sizeable community of retail investors who are 
active in trading offshore and volatile markets across a 
diversified pool of asset classes.
Outlook for the year 
2022
Management is keen on increasing the number of 
companies raising equity and debt capital through the 
market. In recognition of challenges that might emanate 
from the upcoming general election, Management will 
work towards working with clients to close current 
transactions before the election as well as build a strong 
pipeline for business growth in the year2022.

80
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Operations And IT Department 
NSE Annual Report & 
Financial Statemets
Operations & IT
Department

81
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Operations And IT Department 
Operations And IT 
Department 
The Operations and IT Department is tasked with the 
objective of ensuring that the NSE continues to meet its 
main mandate of providing a platform for trading listed 
securities. The Department supports this noble objective 
by enabling a world class trading and broker back 
office systems as well as packaging the market data for 
consumption by various stakeholders to make rational 
investment decisions
The financial year under review presented a number 
of opportunities.  It was the year that the Department 
championed the launch of the unquoted Trading 
platform. (USP).The objective of the USP is to assist 
companies regardless of the balance sheet size access 
long term funds though the capital market. This can 
be undertaken though restricted offers or private 
placements.  Where a company has an existing register 
the same can be availed to the USP for purposes of 
secondary trading. 
 It was also the year when the Department led the 
rolling out of day trading. This means that investors 
can buy and sell listed securities within the same day. 
Day trading enabled investors to participate in covered 
shot selling which means that an investor can sell shares 
bought in the same trading session. To make day trading 
more attractive the NSE Board approved  a 5% discount 
on the close out trade which is levied at 0.114% as 
David Wainaina
Chief Operating Officer
opposed to 0.12%. This discount is enjoyed directly 
by the investor. Day trading has so far contributed 
approximately 2% of the market activity on average. 
From a system perspective the Department continued 
to manage a world class equities infrastructure provided 
by the millennium IT which is part of the London stock 
Exchange Group. The system was extremely resilient 
devoid of any system issues. It is worth noting that the 
market achieved 100% system availability through 
out the year. On the backend of this system is a broker 
back office system. This system has mature gateways 
which brokers are able to sponsor clients who may 
wish to trade directly. This connectivity is guided by 
the NSE trading rules with a trading participant as the 
sponsor. (Sponsored access) . The NSE continued to 
invest considerably in cyber security and is certain of 
the cyber resilience of the business. 
On the bonds section, the Department in liaison with 
the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) were able to scope 
a bond interface to support secondary trading of 
bonds in the new depository by the CBK currently 
under implementation. Once the new CDS is rolled 
out the NSE will continue supporting a transparent 
secondary market for fixed income securities including 
Government and corporate bonds. It is worth noting 
that during the current financial year the bonds market 
registered the highest trading activity of 936 Billion. 
Finally, on the information services front the team 
embarked on marketing reliable and credible market 
data in NSE’s possession. This was done at local and 
international level resulting to a 40% growth in data 
revenue from Ksh 39M to Ksh 51M. We noted that 
there was increased appetite by data consumers 
to assist in making investment decisions. This was 
channeled through licensed data vendors as well as the 
NSE Website.
In conclusion the Department is bullish that building on 
the 2021 foundation we expect better performance in 
2022 guided by the revised 2020-2022 strategic plan.

NSE Annual Report & 
Financial Statemets
Financial
Statements

84
85
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96-158
Statement Of Directors’ Responsibilities
Table Of Contents
Independent Auditor’s Report To The Shareholders Of The 
Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc
Statement Of Profit Or Loss And Other Comprehensive 
Income for The Year Ended 31 December 2021
Statement Of Profit Or Loss And Other Comprehensive 
Income for The Year Ended 31 December 2021
Consolidated Statement Of Financial Position at 31 December 2021
Company Statement Of Financial Position at 31 December 2021
Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity for The Year Ended 
31 December 2021
Company Statement Of Changes In Equity for The Year Ended 31 
December 2021
Statement Of Cash Flows for The Year Ended 31 December 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements 

84
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Statement Of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial 
year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and Group as at the end of the 
financial year and of its profit or loss for that year. The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company 
and Group keep proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the 
Company and Group; disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and 
Group; and that enables them to prepare financial statements of the Company and Group that comply with 
prescribed financial reporting standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.     
The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan 
Companies Act 2015. They also accept responsibility for: 
i.	 Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the 
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or 
error;
ii.	Selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and
iii.	Making judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. 
Having made an assessment of the Company’s and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, the directors 
are not aware of any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast doubt upon the 
Company’s and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of 
their responsibility.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 29 March 2022 and signed on its behalf by
         
------------------------------
------------------------------
------------------------------
   Mr. Kiprono Kittony
    Ms. Risper Alaro
 Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo          
Chairman
Director
Chief Executive

Independent Auditor’s Report To The 
Shareholders Of The Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Plc
Report On The Financial Statements
Our opinion 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (“NSE”/ the 
“Company”) and its subsidiaries and structured entities (together, the “Group”) set out on pages 89 to 158, 
which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2021 and the consolidated 
statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement 
of cash flows for the year then ended, together with the separate statement of financial position of the 
Company at 31 December 2021, the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement 
of changes in equity and statement of cash flows of the Company for the year then ended, and the notes to 
the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and 
of the Company at 31 December 2021 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then 
ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan 
Companies Act, 2015.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated 
and company financial statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards 
Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated and company financial statements in Kenya, 
and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. 
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our 
audit of the financial statements of the current period. We have determined that there are no key audit 
matters to report.

Independent Auditor’s Report To The 
Shareholders Of The Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Plc (Continued)
Report On The Financial Statements (Continued)
Other Matters
The financial statement of NSE PLC for the year ended 31 December 2020 were audited by another auditor 
who expressed an unmodified opinion on those statements on 29 March 2021.
Other information
The other information comprises the Corporate information, Directors’ report, Corporate governance 
statement, Statement of directors’ responsibilities and Director’s remuneration report which we obtained 
prior to the date of this auditor’s report and the rest of the other information in the Annual Report, which 
are expected to be made available to us after that date but does not include the financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial 
statements does not cover the other information and we do not and will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information we have received prior to the date of this 
auditor’s report we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required 
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the rest of the other information in the Annual Report and we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the consolidated and company 
financial statements
The directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies 
Act, 2015, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of 
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using 
the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or Company or 
to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 
 

Independent Auditor’s Report To The 
Shareholders Of The Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Plc (Continued)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and 
company financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	
■
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit 
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting 
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud 
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control. 
	
■
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s or Company’s internal control.
	
■
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by the directors. 
	
■
Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 
in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, 
	
■
if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Group or Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
	
■
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events 
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
	
■
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or 
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the Group’s financial statements. We 
are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely 
responsible for our audit opinion.

Independent Auditor’s Report To The 
Shareholders Of The Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Plc (Continued)
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
(continued)
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the 
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance 
in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We 
describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other matters prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 
2015 
Report of the Directors
In our opinion the information given in the report of the directors on page 19 to 25 is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Directors’ remuneration report
In our opinion the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 72 to 74 has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
The engagement partner responsible for the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is FCPA Anne 
Muraya, Practising certificate No. 1697.
For and on behalf of Deloitte & Touche LLP
Certified Public Accountants (Kenya)
Nairobi
29 March 2022

89
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Statement Of Profit Or Loss And Other Comprehensive Income
for The Year Ended 31 December 2021
Group
Company
Notes
2021
2020
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Revenue
6
550,593
548,257
544,635
548,257
Interest income
9
105,752
85,138
93,880
68,195
Other income
10
57,922
36,544
64,537
73,060
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total income
714,267
669,939
703,052
689,512
Administrative expenses
(500,010)
(467,212)
(486,518)
(457,507)
Share of (loss)/profit of associate
15(b)
(3,389)
16,187
(1,910)
8,930
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Profit before income tax
7
210,868
218,914
214,624
240,935
Income tax expense
11(a)
(78,334)
(50,996)
(71,305)
(49,562)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Profit after tax for the year
132,534
167,918
143,319
191,373
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Fair value gain/(loss) on equity instruments at fair value
through other comprehensive income net of deferred 
tax
26,613
(5,764)
26,613
(5,764)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
26,613
(5,764)
26,613
(5,764)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Share of exchange differences from associate arising 
from translation of foreign operation
15(b)
108
(101)
60
(56)
––––––––
–––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
108
(101)
60
(56)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total other comprehensive income
26,721
(5,865)
26,673
(5,820)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total comprehensive income for the year
159,255
162,053
169,992
185,553
=======
=======
=======
=======
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Earnings per share	 - Basic and diluted
30
0.51
0.65
0.55
0.74
=======
=======
=======
=======

90
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Statement Of Profit Or Loss And Other Comprehensive Income 
for The Year Ended 31 December 2021
Group
Company
Notes
2021
2020
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Profit for the year attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders of the parent                                                      
30
130,525
167,801
143,319
191,373
Non-controlling interests
16(e)
2,009
117
-
-
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
132,534
167,918
143,319
191,373
=======
=======
=======
=======
	
Total comprehensive income for the year 
attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders of the parent                                                      
157,246
161,936
169,992
185,553
Non-controlling interests
16 (e)
2,009
117
-
-
159,255
162,053
169,992
185,553
=======
=======
=======
=======

91
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Consolidated Statement Of Financial Position At 31 December 2021
Notes
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
ASSETS
12
171,382
196,439
Non-current assets
Property and equipment
Investment property
   13
313,100
313,100
Intangible assets
14
126,217
148,550
Investment in associate 
15 (b)
236,752
287,667
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income  – Quoted 
equity instruments
17
75,333
48,720
Long-term restricted investments
19
144,333
170,938
Deferred income tax
20
-
5,007
–––––––––
–––––––––
1,067,117
1,170,421
–––––––––
–––––––––
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
21 (a)
92,419
69,654
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss - Government securities
18
365,598
281,144
Tax recoverable
11 (c )
32,423
19,222
Fixed deposits
22
43,766
126,469
Short-term restricted cash and investment
22
238,652
243,488
Cash and cash equivalents
22
374,417
402,748
–––––––––
–––––––––
1,147,275
1,142,725
–––––––––
–––––––––
TOTAL ASSETS
2,214,392
2,313,146
========
========
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
24
1,040,017
1,038,003
Share premium
25
278,579
277,185
Retained earnings
746,246
883,258
Other reserves
536
428
Revaluation reserve
2,433
(24,180)
–––––––––
–––––––––
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent
2,067,811
2,174,694
Non-controlling interest
16 (e)
17,518
15,509
–––––––––
–––––––––
Total equity
2,085,329
2,190,203
–––––––––
–––––––––
Non-current liabilities
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
26
11,750
35,250
Tenant deposits
27 (a)
2,216
3,233
Deferred income tax
20
1,137
-
–––––––––
–––––––––
15,103
38,483
–––––––––
–––––––––
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
27 (b)
44,490
50,194
Dividends payable
28
67,070
32,066
Trading members’ contributions
2,400
2,200
–––––––––
–––––––––
113,960
84,460
–––––––––
–––––––––
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES
2,214,392
2,313,146
========
========
The financial statements on pages 89 to 158 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 
March 2022 and were signed on its behalf by: 	
   
------------------------------
------------------------------
------------------------------
   Mr. Kiprono Kittony
    Ms. Risper Alaro
 Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo          
Chairman
Director
Chief Executive
	
      	
	
	
  	
	
	
    	
	
           

92
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Company Statement Of Financial Position at 31 December 2021
Notes
2021
Kshs’000
2021
Kshs’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property and equipment
12
171,380
196,436
Investment property
13
313,100
313,100
Intangible assets
14
126,217
148,550
Investment in associate 
15 (b)
112,619
140,905
Investment in subsidiaries and structured entities
16
241,899
241,899
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – Quoted equity 
instrument
17
75,333
48,720
Deferred income tax
20
-
587
–––––––––
–––––––––
1,040,548
1,090,197
–––––––––
–––––––––
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
21 (a)
89,435
67,672
Due from related party
31
12,913
6,526
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss - Government securities
18
365,598
281,144
Tax recoverable
11 (c)
27,248
15,405
Fixed deposits
22
27,933
126,469
Short-term restricted cash and investments
22
238,652
243,488
Cash and cash equivalents
22
362,834
401,027
–––––––––
–––––––––
1,124,613
1,141,731
–––––––––
–––––––––
TOTAL ASSETS
2,165,161
2,231,928
========
========
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
24
1,040,017
1,038,003
Share premium
25
278,579
277,185
Retained earnings
735,465
859,683
Other reserves
3
(57)
Revaluation reserve
2,433
(24,180)
–––––––––
–––––––––
Shareholders’ funds
2,056,497
2,150,634
–––––––––
–––––––––
Non-current liabilities
Tenant deposits
27(a)
2,216
3,233
Deferred income tax
20
1,719
-
–––––––––
–––––––––
3,935
3,233
–––––––––
–––––––––
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
27 (b)
38,285
46,621
Dividends payable
28
66,444
31,440
–––––––––
–––––––––
104,729
78,061
–––––––––
–––––––––
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES
2,165,161
2,231,928
========
=======
The financial statements on pages  89 to 158   were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 
March 2022 and were signed on its behalf by:
------------------------------
------------------------------
------------------------------
   Mr. Kiprono Kittony
    Ms. Risper Alaro
 Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo          
Chairman
Director
Chief Executive
 

93
Financial Statements
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity 
for The Year Ended 31 December 2021
Share capital
Share 
premium
Other 
reserves
**Revaluation 
reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Due to owners 
of the parent
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total equity
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Year ended 31 December 2020
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
323
(18,416)
732,992
2,030,087
56,113
2,086,200
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
167,801
167,801
117
167,918
Other comprehensive income, net of
-
-
(101)
(5,764)
-
(5,865)
-
(5,865)
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(101)
(5,764)
167,801
161,936
117
162,053
Dividend paid by AKS Nominees
-
-
-
-
(2,391)
(2,391)
-
(2,391)
2019 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(20,760)
(20,760)
-
(20,760)
Reduction in NCI on increase in shareholding in 
 AKS Nominees Ltd
-
-
206
-
5,616
5,822
(40,721)
(34,899)
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
428
(24,180)
883,258
2,174,694
15,509
2,190,203
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
Year ended 31 December 2021
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
428
(24,180)
883,258
2,174,694
15,509
2,190,203
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
130,525
130,525
2,009
132,534
Other comprehensive income, net of tax
-
-
108
26,613
-
26,721
-
26,721
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
108
26,613
130,525
157,246
2,009
  159,255
2020 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(137,535)
(137,535)
-
(137,535)
2021 special dividend declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(130,002)
(130,002)
-
(130,002)
Issue of shares to employees share ownership plan
2,014
1,394
-
-
-
3,408
-
3,408
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
1,040,017
278,579
536
2,433
746,246
2,067,811
17,518
2,085,329
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property and valuation of equity instruments through other comprehensive income.
Other reserves relate to the Company’s share of the translation reserve of the associate. 

94
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Company Statement Of Changes In Equity 
for The Year Ended 31 December 2021
Share capital Share premium Other reserves
Revaluation 
Reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total equity
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000 
Year ended 31 
December 2020
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
(1)
(18,416)
689,070
1,985,841
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
191,373
191,373
Other comprehensive 
income, net of tax
-
-
(56)
(5,764)
-
(5,820)
Total 
comprehensive 
income for the year
-
-
(56)
(5,764)
191,373
185,553
2019 dividend 
declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(20,760)
(20,760)
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
1,038,003
277,185
(57)
            (24,180)
859,683
2,150,634
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
Year ended 31 
December 2021
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
(57)
(24,180)
859,683
2,150,634
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
143,319
143,319
Other comprehensive 
income, net of tax
-
-
60
26,613
-
26,673
Total 
comprehensive 
income for the year
-
-
60
26,613
143,319
169,992
2020 dividend 
declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(137,535)
(137,535)
2021 special dividend 
declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(130,002)
(130,002)
Issue of shares to 
employee share 
ownership plan
2,014
1,394
-
-
-
3,408
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
1,040,017
278,579
3
2,433
735,465
2,056,497
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property and valuation of equity instruments through other 
comprehensive income.
Other reserves relates to the Company’s share of the translation reserve of the associate.

95
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Statement Of Cash Flows 
for The Year Ended 31 December 2021
Group
Company
Notes
2021
2020
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations
29
135,901
136,289
141,719
181,581
Tax paid
11 (c)
(85,391)
(19,982)
(80,842)
(16,262)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Net cash from operating activities
50,510
116,307
60,877
165,319
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property and equipment
12
(5,528)
(9,920)
(5,528)
(9,920)
Purchase of intangible assets 
14
(3,648)
(10,848)
(3,648)
(10,848)
Interest received
105,752
85,138
93,880
68,195
Dividend received from associate
15 (b)
47,634
2,700
26,436
2,700
Dividends received by subsidiary
-
2,160
-
-
Proceeds on disposal of equipment
4,117
85
4,117
85
Net investment in treasury bonds
(84,567)
(169,296)
(84,454)
(169,296)
Investment in subsidiary
16 (b)
-
(34,899)
-
(34,899)
Investment in market making fund
(712)
-
(712)
-
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities
63,048
(134,880)
30,091
(153,983)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid
28
(232,533)
(19,801)
(232,533)
(19,696)
Contributions from clearing members
26
(23,500)
-
-
-
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Net cash used in financing activities
(256,033)
(19,801)
(232,533)
(19,696)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
(142,475)
(38,374)
(141,565)
(8,360)
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of year
22
943,643
982,017
770,984
779,344
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year
22
801,168
943,643
629,419
770,984
=======
=======
=======
=======
Consisting of:
Bank balance
22
374,417
402,748
362,834
401,027
Short-term restricted cash and investment
22
238,652
243,488
238,652
243,488
Fixed deposits
22
43,766
126,469
27,933
126,469
Long-term restricted investments
19
144,333
170,938
-
-
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year
801,168
943,643
629,419
770,984
=======
=======
=======
=======

96
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements 
1.	Reporting Entity
The Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc (NSE/the “Company”/the “Exchange”), formerly known as the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange Limited, was incorporated in Kenya under the Companies Act and is domiciled in Kenya. 
The NSE is licensed as an exchange by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) of Kenya and obtained a license 
on 19 October 2015 to operate a derivatives exchange. The NSE currently has the primary market services 
as a main line of business. The consolidated financial statements of the Group at and for the year ended 
31 December 2021 comprise the Company and subsidiaries and controlled structured entities (collectively 
referred to as the “Group”) and reflect the Company’s interest in an associate company.
2.	Standards And Interpretations Affecting The Reported Results Or 
Financial Position
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
a)	 Statement of compliance 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in compliance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS and the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The IFRS are issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board.
b)	 Basis of preparation 
The financial statements comprise a profit and loss account (statement of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income), balance sheet (statement of financial position), statement of changes in equity, 
statement of cash flows, and notes. Income and expenses, excluding the components of other comprehensive 
income (OCI), are recognised in the profit or loss. Other comprehensive income is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and comprises items of income and expense (including reclassification adjustments) 
that are not recognised in the profit or loss as required or permitted by IFRS. Reclassification adjustments are 
amounts reclassified to the profit or loss in the current period that were recognised in other comprehensive 
income in the current or previous periods. Transactions with the owners of the Company in their capacity 
as owners are recognised in the statement of changes in equity.
i.		Basis of measurement 
The measurement basis used is the historical cost basis except where otherwise stated in the accounting 
policies below.

97
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
2. Standards And Interpretations Affecting The Reported Result Or 
Financial Position (Continued)
b) Basis of preparation (continued)
	
i. Basis of measurement (continued)
Under the historical cost basis, assets are recorded at the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or 
the fair value of the consideration given to acquire them at the time of their acquisition. Liabilities are 
recorded at the amount of proceeds received in exchange for the obligation or, in some cases, at the 
amounts of cash or cash equivalents expected to be paid to satisfy the liability in the normal course of 
business.
For those assets and liabilities measured at fair value, fair value is the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market 
observable data as far as possible. If the fair value of an asset or a liability is not directly observable, 
it is estimated by the Group using valuation techniques that maximise the use of relevant observable 
inputs and minimise the use of unobservable inputs (e.g. by use of the market comparable approach 
that reflects recent transaction prices for similar items or discounted cash flow analysis). Inputs used are 
consistent with the characteristics of the asset/liability that market participants would take into account.
ii.	 	Use of estimates and judgment 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical 
accounting estimates. It also requires the directors to exercise their judgment in the process of applying 
the Group’s and Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or 
complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are 
disclosed in Note 4.
c)	 Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS)
i.	 Relevant new standards and amendments to published standards effective for the year ended 31 December 
2021
Several new and revised standards and interpretations became effective during the year. The Directors  
have evaluated the impact of the new standards and interpretations and none of them had a significant 
impact on the Group’s financial statements.
The following revised IFRSs were effective in the current year and the nature and the impact of the 
relevant amendments are described below.
Impact of the initial application of Interest Rate Benchmark Reform
In the prior year, the Phase 1 amendments Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Amendments to IFRS 9/
IAS 39 and IFRS 7 came into effect. These amendments modify specific hedge accounting requirements 
to allow hedge accounting to continue for affected hedges during the period of uncertainty before the 
hedged items or hedging instruments are amended as a result of the interest rate benchmark reform.

98
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
2. Standards And Interpretations Affecting The Reported Result Or 
Financial Position (Continued)
(c) Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) (continued)
(i) Relevant new standards and amendments to published standards effective for 
the year ended 31 December 2021 (continued)
The Phase 2 amendments Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 
4 and IFRS 16. Adopting these amendments enables the Group to reflect the effects of transitioning from 
interbank offered rates (IBOR) to alternative benchmark interest rates (also referred to as ‘risk free rates’ 
or RFRs) without giving rise to accounting impacts that would not provide useful information to users of 
financial statements.
Both the Phase 1 and Phase 2 amendments are not relevant to the Group.
Impact of the initial application of COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021—
Amendmends to IFRS 16
In the prior year, Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions (Amendment to IFRS 16) that provided practical 
relief to lessees in accounting for rent concessions occurring as a direct consequence of COVID-19, by 
introducing a practical expedient to IFRS 16 was amended. This practical expedient was available to rent 
concessions for which any reduction in lease payments affected payments originally due on or before 30 
June 2021.
In March 2021, the Board issued Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021 (Amendment 
to IFRS 16) that extends the practical expedient to apply to reduction in lease payments originally due on 
or before 30 June 2022.
The practical expedient permits a lessee to elect not to assess whether a COVID-19-related rent concession 
is a lease modification. A lessee that makes this election shall account for any change in lease payments 
resulting from the COVID-19-related rent concession applying IFRS 16 as if the change were not a lease 
modification.
The practical expedient applies only to rent concessions occurring as a direct consequence of COVID-19 
and only if all of the following conditions are met:
	
■The change in lease payments results in revised consideration for the lease that is substantially the 
same as, or less than, the consideration for the lease immediately preceding the change
	
■Any reduction in lease payments affects only payments originally due on or before 30 June 2022 
(a rent concession meets this condition if it results in reduced lease payments on or before 30 June 
2022 and increased lease payments that extend beyond 30 June 2022)
	
■There is no substantive change to other terms and conditions of the lease
	
■Impact on accounting for changes in lease payments applying the exemption
The amendments are not applicable to the Group in the current year.

99
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
2. Standards And Interpretations Affecting The Reported Result Or 
Financial Position (Continued)
(c) Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) (continued)
ii.	 Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective 
At the date of authorization of these financial statements, the Group has not yet applied the following 
new and revised IFRS Standards that have been issued but are not yet effective. 
New and Amendments to standards
Effective for annual periods beginning on 
or after
Amendments to IAS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale contribution 
of assets between Investor and its Associate or Joint 
Venture
Yet to be set, however earlier application 
permitted
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2018-2020 
Cycle - Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption 
of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS 
9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 16 Leases, and IAS 41 
Agriculture
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2022
IFRS 17 - insurance contracts
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2023
Amendments to IAS 1 -Classification of Liabilities as 
Current or Non-current
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2023
Amendments to IFRS 3 - Reference to the Conceptual 
Framework
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2022
Amendments to IFRS 16 - Property, Plant and 
Equipment – Proceeds before Intended Use
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2022
Amendments to IAS 37 - Onerous Contracts – Cost of 
Fulfilling a Contract
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2022
Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice Statement 2 
Disclosure of Accounting Policies  
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2023
Amendments to IAS 8 - Definition of Accounting 
Estimates
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2023
Amendments to IAS 12 - Deferred Tax related to Assets 
and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2023
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate 
or Joint Venture.
The amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 deal with situations where there is a sale or contribution of assets 
between an investor and its associate or joint venture. Specifically, the amendments state that gains or 
losses resulting from the loss of control of a subsidiary that does not contain a business in a transaction 
with an associate or a joint venture that is accounted for using the equity method, are recognised in the 
parent’s profit or loss only to the extent of the unrelated investors’ interests in that associate or joint 
venture.

100
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
2. Standards And Interpretations Affecting The Reported Result Or 
Financial Position (Continued)
(c) Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) (continued)
(ii) Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective (continued) 
Similarly, gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of investments retained in any former 
subsidiary (that has become an associate or a joint venture that is accounted for using the equity method) 
to fair value are recognised in the former parent’s profit or loss only to the extent of the unrelated 
investors’ interests in the new associate or joint venture.
The effective date of the amendments has yet to be set by the Board; however, earlier application 
of the amendments is permitted. The directors of the Group anticipate that the application of these 
amendments may have an impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements in future periods 
should such transactions arise.
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2018–2020.
The Annual Improvements include amendments to four Standards.
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
The amendment provides additional relief to a subsidiary which becomes a first-time adopter later than 
its parent in respect of accounting for cumulative translation differences. As a result of the amendment, 
a subsidiary that uses the exemption in IFRS 1:D16(a) can now also elect to measure cumulative 
translation differences for all foreign operations at the carrying amount that would be included in the 
parent’s consolidated financial statements, based on the parent’s date of transition to IFRS Standards, if 
no adjustments were made for consolidation procedures and for the effects of the business combination 
in which the parent acquired the subsidiary. A similar election is available to an associate or joint venture 
that uses the exemption in IFRS 1:D16(a).
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022, with early application 
permitted.
IFRS 16 Leases
The amendment removes the illustration of the reimbursement of leasehold improvements.
As the amendment to IFRS 16 only regards an illustrative example, no effective date is stated.
Amendments to IAS 1 – Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current .
The amendments to IAS 1 affect only the presentation of liabilities as current or non-current in the 
statement of financial position and not the amount or timing of recognition of any asset, liability, income 
or expenses, or the information disclosed about those items.

101
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
2. Standards And Interpretations Affecting The Reported Result Or 
Financial Position (Continued)
(c) Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) (continued)
(ii) Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective (continued) 
The amendments clarify that the classification of liabilities as current or non-current is based on rights that 
are in existence at the end of the reporting period, specify that classification is unaffected by expectations 
about whether an entity will exercise its right to defer settlement of a liability, explain that rights are in 
existence if covenants are complied with at the end of the reporting period, and introduce a definition 
of ‘settlement’ to make clear that settlement refers to the transfer to the counterparty of cash, equity 
instruments, other assets or services.
The amendments are applied retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023, 
with early application permitted.
 
Amendments to IFRS 3 business combinations – Reference to the Conceptual 
Framework
The amendments update IFRS 3 so that it refers to the 2018 Conceptual Framework instead of the 1989 
Framework. They also add to IFRS 3 a requirement that, for obligations within the scope of IAS 37, an 
acquirer applies IAS 37 to determine whether at the acquisition date a present obligation exists as a result 
of past events. For a levy that would be within the scope of IFRIC 21 Levies, the acquirer applies IFRIC 21 
to determine whether the obligating event that gives rise to a liability to pay the levy has occurred by the 
acquisition date.
Finally, the amendments add an explicit statement that an acquirer does not recognise contingent assets 
acquired in a business combination.
The amendments are effective for business combinations for which the date of acquisition is on or 
after the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2022. Early application 
is permitted if an entity also applies all other updated references (published together with the updated 
Conceptual Framework) at the same time or earlier.
Amendments to IAS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment—Proceeds before 
Intended Use 
The amendments prohibit deducting from the cost of an item of property, plant and equipment any 
proceeds from selling items produced before that asset is available for use, i.e. proceeds while bringing 
the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended 
by management. Consequently, an entity recognises such sales proceeds and related costs in profit or 
loss. The entity measures the cost of those items in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories. 
The amendments also clarify the meaning of ‘testing whether an asset is functioning properly’. IAS 16 
now specifies this as assessing whether the technical and physical performance of the asset is such that 
it is capable of being used in the production or supply of goods or services, for rental to others, or for 
administrative purposes.

102
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
2. Standards And Interpretations Affecting The Reported Result Or 
Financial Position (Continued)
(c) Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) (continued)
(ii) Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective (continued) 
If not presented separately in the statement of comprehensive income, the financial statements shall 
disclose the amounts of proceeds and cost included in profit or loss that relate to items produced that are 
not an output of the entity’s ordinary activities, and which line item(s) in the statement of comprehensive 
income include(s) such proceeds and cost.
The amendments are applied retrospectively, but only to items of property, plant and equipment that 
are brought to the location and condition necessary for them to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management on or after the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial 
statements in which the entity first applies the amendments. 
The entity shall recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying the amendments as an adjustment to 
the opening balance of retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) at the beginning 
of that earliest period presented. 
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022, with early 
application permitted.
Amendments to IAS 37 – Onerous Contracts—Cost of Fulfilling a Contract 
The amendments specify that the ‘cost of fulfilling’ a contract comprises the ‘costs that relate directly 
to the contract’. Costs that relate directly to a contract consist of both the incremental costs of fulfilling 
that contract (examples would be direct labour or materials) and an allocation of other costs that relate 
directly to fulfilling contracts (an example would be the allocation of the depreciation charge for an item 
of property, plant and equipment used in fulfilling the contract).
The amendments apply to contracts for which the entity has not yet fulfilled all its obligations at the 
beginning of the annual reporting period in which the entity first applies the amendments. Comparatives 
are not restated. Instead, the entity shall recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying the 
amendments as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings or other component of equity, 
as appropriate, at the date of initial application.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022, with early 
application permitted.
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IFRS Practice Statement 2 Making 
Materiality Judgements—Disclosure of Accounting Policies

103
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
2. Standards And Interpretations Affecting The Reported Result Or 
Financial Position (Continued)
(c) Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) (continued)
(ii) Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective (continued) 
The amendments change the requirements in IAS 1 with regard to disclosure of accounting policies. The 
amendments replace all instances of the term ‘significant accounting policies’ with ‘material accounting 
policy information’. Accounting policy information is material if, when considered together with other 
information included in an entity’s financial statements, it can reasonably be expected to influence 
decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those 
financial statements.
The supporting paragraphs in IAS 1 are also amended to clarify that accounting policy information that 
relates to immaterial transactions, other events or conditions is immaterial and need not be disclosed. 
Accounting policy information may be material because of the nature of the related transactions, other 
events or conditions, even if the amounts are immaterial. However, not all accounting policy information 
relating to material transactions, other events or conditions is itself material.
The Board has also developed guidance and examples to explain and demonstrate the application of the 
‘four-step materiality process’ described in IFRS Practice Statement 2.
The amendments to IAS 1 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023, with 
earlier application permitted and are applied prospectively. The amendments to IFRS Practice Statement 
2 do not contain an effective date or transition requirements.
Amendments to IAS 8—Definition of Accounting Estimates
The amendments replace the definition of a change in accounting estimates with a definition of accounting 
estimates. Under the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements 
that are subject to measurement uncertainty”.
The definition of a change in accounting estimates was deleted. However, the Board retained the concept 
of changes in accounting estimates in the Standard with the following clarifications:
	
■A change in accounting estimate that results from new information or new developments is not the 
correction of an error
	
■A change in accounting estimate that results from new information or new developments is not the 
correction of an error
	
■The effects of a change in an input or a measurement technique used to develop an accounting 
estimate are changes in accounting estimates if they do not result from the correction of prior 
period errors

104
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
2. Standards And Interpretations Affecting The Reported Result Or 
Financial Position (Continued)
(c) Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) (continued)
(ii) Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective (continued) 
The Board added two examples (Examples 4-5) to the Guidance on implementing IAS 8, which accompanies 
the Standard. The Board has deleted one example (Example 3) as it could cause confusion in light of the 
amendments.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023 to changes in 
accounting policies and changes in accounting estimates that occur on or after the beginning of that 
period, with earlier application permitted.
Amendments to IAS 12 - Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising 
from a Single Transaction
The amendments introduce a further exception from the initial recognition exemption. Under the 
amendments,an entity does not apply the initial recognition exemption for transactions that give rise to 
equal taxable and deductible temporary differences.
Depending on the applicable tax law, equal taxable and deductible temporary differences may arise on 
initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit. For example, this may arise upon recognition of a lease liability and 
the corresponding right-of-use asset applying IFRS 16 at the commencement date of a lease.
Following the amendments to IAS 12, an entity is required to recognise the related deferred tax asset and 
liability, with the recognition of any deferred tax asset being subject to the recoverability criteria in IAS 12.
The Board also adds an illustrative example to IAS 12 that explains how the amendments are applied.
The amendments apply to transactions that occur on or after the beginning of the earliest comparative 
period presented. In addition, at the beginning of the earliest comparative period an entity recognises:
	
■A deferred tax asset (to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised) and a deferred tax liability for all 
deductible and taxable temporary differences associated with:
	
■Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
	
■Decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities and the corresponding amounts recognised as 
part of the cost of the related asset
	
■The cumulative effect of initially applying the amendments as an adjustment to the opening balance 
of retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) at that date The amendments are 
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023, with earlier application 
permitted.

105
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued))
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies 
3.1 Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Plc and its subsidiaries, controlled structured entities, a limited liability partnership and interest in associate 
company made up to 31 December 2021. These have all been fully consolidated. 
i.	 	Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the group has control. The group 
controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement 
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries 
are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated 
from the date that control ceases.
The group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration 
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities 
incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the group. The 
consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. 
The group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, 
either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s 
previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any 
gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an 
asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IFRS 9 either in profit or loss or as a change to other 
comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured, and 
its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. The excess of the consideration transferred, 
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any 
previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and 
previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired 
in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the profit or loss.
The Group financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities and results of the operations of the NSE 
Clear Limited, a company formed to act as a central counterparty in all the derivative transactions and 
AKS Nominees Ltd. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses in 
the Company’s separate financial statements. Details of NSE’s subsidiary are set out in Note 16.    

106
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.1 Basis of consolidation (continued)
i.	 Subsidiaries (continued)
The accounting policies of the subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to align them with the 
policies adopted by the Group.
ii.	 Structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund and the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund are 
trusts established under the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to the statutory obligations imposed on the 
NSE, as a licensed exchange, by the provisions of the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 
2015 and clause 1.90 and 1.10 of the NSE Derivatives Rules. Clause 1.90 requires that the NSE, shall by 
itself or through a clearing house, establish and maintain a Settlement Guarantee Fund to strengthen 
the financial integrity of the derivatives market and ensure settlement of transactions in derivatives 
securities in case of default by a clearing member (CM). Clause 1.10 requires that the NSE shall establish 
and maintain an Investor Protection Fund to satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out 
of non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members or losses incurred by reason of the 
default of the trading members up to an amount specified in the rules. 
Management and administration of the assets and operations of these trusts is done by a management 
committee formed by the NSE Clear Board of Directors. The Trustees of the funds act as the custodians 
and trustees of the assets of these Funds as defined in the trust deeds and rules of these Funds. The 
Fund’s assets are segregated from the assets of the NSE and the NSE Clear Limited but are effectively 
controlled by NSE Clear Limited. The NSE, by virtue of its role as the parent company of the clearing 
house, NSE Clear Limited, has to consolidate the results of these funds in its annual financial statements. 
The subsidiary and structured entities are stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses in the 
separate financial statements of the Company. Separate financial statements are prepared for the 
subsidiary and the structured entities, and independent external audits performed.
iii.	Investment in associate 
Associates are those entities which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial 
and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% 
to 50% of the voting power of another entity. The results and assets and liabilities of associates are 
incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting. 
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the statement of financial position 
at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, 
less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of an associate in excess of the 
Group’s interest in that associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.

107
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.1 Basis of consolidation (continued)
iv.	 Partnership
Additionally, in 2021, the Company incorporated a Limited Liability Partnership namely NSE LLP. The 
Partners of the LLP are the Chief Executive and the Chief Operating Officer of the NSE PLC. The LLP 
also has a Management Committee that oversees the day to day activities of the LLP. The Management 
Committee of the LLP reports to the Board of Directors of NSE PLC. The principal activity of the LLP 
is to run the recently launched Unquoted Scrips Platform. As per the Partnership Deed, NSE PLC shall 
contribute 100% of the capital of the NSE LLP, and all profit and losses of the NSE LLP shall be allocated 
to NSE PLC. Separate financial statements are prepared for the NSE LLP and independent external audit 
performed.
3.2 Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions and any unrealized income and expenses arising from intra-group 
transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Unrealized gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the 
investment to the extent of the Groups’ interest in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same 
way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
	
3.3 Foreign currencies 
i.	 Functional and Presentation currency
The financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (the “Functional Currency”). The financial statements 
are presented in Kenya Shilling which is the Group’s and the Company’s Functional and Presentation 
Currency. Except as indicated, financial information presented in Kenya Shillings has been rounded to 
the nearest thousand.
ii.	 Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions that are transactions denominated, or that require settlement, in a foreign 
currency are translated into the respective functional currencies of the operations using the exchange 
rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. 
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from 
the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are recognised in profit or loss. 
Translation differences on non-monetary financial instruments, such as equities held at fair value through 
profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary 
financial instruments, such as equities classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in 
other comprehensive income.

108
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
	
3.4 Revenue recognition
The Group recognises revenue as and when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of 
a product or service to a customer. The amount of revenue recognised is the amount the Group expects to 
receive in accordance with the terms of the contract, and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third 
parties, such as Value Added Tax.
Transaction levy income is based on a percentage of the value of shares traded and is recognised on the 
dates of the transactions.
Initial listing income is recognized in the year in which the listing company makes the flotation. Additional 
listing income is recognized during the year in which the issuing company makes announcement of the 
bonus/rights issues.  
Annual listing fee is computed on the basis of the daily weighted average capitalisation value of the listed 
securities for the 11 months period between 1 January and 30 November.
Interest income from a financial asset is recognised on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding 
and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial 
recognition.
Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the term 
of the lease. 
Management fee is charged by the NSE to the subsidiaries and structured entities to cater for expenses 
attributable to investment and treasury management services, staff costs and other general and 
administrative overheads. 
Market access fees are fees charged on the admission of a market participant as a member of the Group and 
are recognised over a period of three years.
An investor protection levy of 0.01% is charged on the transaction value/notional value (or such other 
amount as may be determined by the NSE in consultation with the CMA), for all transactions in derivative 
securities which levy is remitted to the Investor Protection Fund.

109
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.5 Property and equipment
The building is carried at valuation less any subsequent accumulated depreciation. Revaluations are 
performed with sufficient regularity to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that 
which would be determined using fair value at the end of the year. The frequency of valuation is annual.
Motor vehicles and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Professional valuations on buildings are carried out in accordance with the Group policy. The fair value is 
determined based on the market comparable approach that reflects recent transaction prices for similar 
properties. In estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best use of the properties is their 
current use. There has been no change to the valuation technique during the year.
Increases in the carrying amounts of property resulting from revaluation is recognized in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in equity, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for the same 
asset previously recognized in profit or loss, in which case the increase is credited to profit or loss to the 
extent of the decrease previously expensed. A decrease in carrying amount arising on the revaluation of 
buildings is recognized in profit or loss to the extent that it exceeds the balance, if any, held in the properties 
revaluation reserve relating to a previous revaluation of that asset.
Each year the difference between depreciation based on the revalued carrying amount of an asset (the 
depreciation charged to profit or loss) and depreciation based on the asset’s original cost is transferred from 
*the revaluation surplus to retained earnings.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis to write down the cost of each asset to its residual value 
over its estimated useful life as follows:
Motor vehicles
 4 years
Furniture, fittings and partitions
 8 years
Office equipment
 4 years
Computer equipment   	
 4 years
Buildings 
Over the remaining period of the lease 
                                      	
	
	
	
                    
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its estimated recoverable amount if the asset’s 
carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of equipment are determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and 
the carrying amount of the asset at the date of disposal and taken into account in determining operating 
profit. Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of the building are included in other comprehensive 
income in the period in which they arise net of deferred taxes.
3.6 Intangible assets
Intangible assets represent computer software which is stated at cost less amortisation. Amortisation is 
calculated to write-off software on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of 4 – 10 years.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated and an impairment loss is 
recognized in profit or loss whenever the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.

110
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.7 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible 
assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
3.8 Investment property
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals, is stated at its fair value, at the reporting date 
as determined through its revaluation by external valuers on the basis of the highest and best use. Gains or 
losses arising from changes in fair value of the investment property are included in profit or loss in the year 
in which they arise net of deferred taxes. 
3.9 Restricted cash and investments
The Group classifies all cash, cash equivalents and investments that are not available for general use by the 
Group, either due to regulatory requirements or through restrictions in specific agreements, as restricted in 
the accompanying statement of financial position.
Short-term restricted cash and investments
As required by the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015, the Group is required to maintain 
a minimum liquid net-worth capital requirement equal to one half of the total estimated operating costs for 
the next twelve (12) months period. At 31 December 2021, this amount was Kshs 239 million (2020: Kshs 
243 million). The amounts are reflected as short-term restricted investments (note 22).
Long-term restricted cash and investments
The NSE has contributed Kshs 20 million, Kshs 100 million and Kshs 10 million as seed capital to the 
subsidiary, NSE Clear Limited, and the structured entities, NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund 
and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund respectively. These amounts could be used in the event of 
a clearing/trading member’s default where the amount of the defaulting clearing/trading member’s initial, 
variation and additional margins and guarantee fund deposits are insufficient. These amounts together with 
related earned interest are held in bank deposits that have been classified as restricted (note 19).
3.10 Financial instruments
i.	 	Equity Instruments
Equity instruments are instruments that meet the definition of equity from the issuer’s perspective; that is, 
instruments that do not contain a contractual obligation to pay and that evidence a residual interest in the 
issuer’s net assets e.g. basic ordinary shares. 
The Group management has elected, at initial recognition, to irrevocably designate an equity investment at 
fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) and therefore, measures all equity investments at 
fair value through other comprehensive income. The Group’s policy is to designate equity investments as 
FVOCI when those investments are held for purposes other than to generate investment returns. When this 
election is used, fair value gains and losses are recognised in OCI and are subsequently not reclassified to 
profit or loss, including on disposal. Impairment losses (and reversals of impairment losses) are not reported 
separately from other changes in fair values. 

111
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments(Continued) 
	
i. Equity Instruments (continued)
Dividends, when representing a return on such investments, continue to be recognised in profit or loss 
as other income when the Group’s right to receive payment is established.
ii.	 Debt instruments 
a)	 Recognition and subsequent measurement
Financial instruments are recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. All financial assets are recognised initially using the 
trade date accounting which is the date the Group commits itself to the purchase or sale. 
At initial recognition, financial assets are measured at fair value, and are classified and 
subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVTOCI) or amortized cost based on: 
	
■the Group’s business model for managing the financial assets; and 
	
■the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
Based on these factors, the Group classifies its financial assets into one of the following three 
measurement categories:
	
■Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where 
those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at 
amortised cost. Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income 
using the effective interest rate method. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is 
recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains/ (losses) together with 
foreign exchange gains and losses. Impairment losses are presented as separate line item 
in the statement of profit or loss.
	
■FVTOCI: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling 
the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal 
and interest, are measured at FVTOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken 
through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income 
and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or loss. When the 
financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI 
is reclassified from equity to profit or loss and recognised in other gains/ (losses). Interest 
income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective 
interest rate method. Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other gains/ 
(losses) and impairment expenses are presented as separate line item in the statement 
of profit or loss.
	
■FVTPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured 
at FVTPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVTPL is 
recognised in profit or loss and presented net within other gains/ (losses) in the period 
in which it arises.

112
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.10  Financial instruments(Continued)
ii. Debt instruments  (continued) 
b)	Recognition and subsequent measurement
Business model: the business model reflects how the Group manages the assets in order to generate 
cash flows i.e. whether the Group’s objective is solely to collect the contractual cash flows from the 
assets or is to collect both the contractual cash flows and cash flows arising from the sale of assets. 
If neither of these is applicable (e.g. financial assets held for trading purposes), then the financial 
assets are classified as part of ‘other’ business model and measured at FVTPL. Factors considered 
by the Group in determining the business model for a group of assets include past experience on 
how the cash flows for these assets were collected, how the asset’s performance is evaluated and 
reported to key management personnel and how risks are assessed and managed.
SPPI: Where the business model is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or to collect 
contractual cash flows and sell, the Group assesses whether the financial instruments’ cash flows 
represent solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI test’). In making this assessment, the Group 
considers whether the contractual cash flows are consistent with a basic lending arrangement i.e. 
includes only consideration for the time value of money, credit risk, other basic lending risks and 
a profit margin that is consistent with a basic lending arrangement. Where the contractual terms 
introduce exposure to risk or volatility that are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement, the 
related financial asset is classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss. 
The Group reclassifies financial assets when and only when its business model for managing those 
assets changes.
c)	 	Impairment 
The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses (ECL) on financial assets that are 
measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income. 
The loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses for financial 
instruments for which: (a) the credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition; or (b) 
there is observable evidence of impairment (a credit-impaired financial asset). If, at the reporting 
date, the credit risk on a financial asset other than a trade receivable has not increased significantly 
since initial recognition, the loss allowance is measured for that financial instrument at an amount 
equal to 12-month expected credit losses. All changes in the loss allowance are recognised in profit 
or loss as impairment gains or losses.
Lifetime expected credit losses represent the expected credit losses that result from all possible 
default events over the expected life of a financial instrument. 12-month expected credit losses 
represent the portion of lifetime expected credit losses that result from default events on a financial 
asset that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.

113
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments(Continued)
ii. Debt instruments  (continued) 
c) Imparement (continued)
Expected credit losses are measured in a way that reflects an unbiased and probability-weighted 
amount determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes, the time value of money, and 
reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting 
date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
In applying the IFRS 9 impairment requirements, the Group follows one of the approaches below:
The general approach
The simplified approach
The General Approach
Under the general approach, at each reporting date, the Group determines whether the financial 
asset is in one of the three stages below, to determine both the amount of ECL to recognise as well as 
how interest income should be recognised.
	
■Stage 1 - where credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition. For financial 
assets in stage 1, the Group will recognise 12 month ECL and recognise interest income on a 
gross basis – this means that interest will be calculated on the gross carrying amount of the 
financial asset before adjusting for ECL.
	
■Stage 2 - where credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition. When a financial 
asset transfers to stage 2, the Group will recognise lifetime ECL but interest income will continue 
to be recognised on a gross basis.
	
■Stage 3 - where the financial asset is credit impaired. This is effectively the point at which 
there has been an incurred loss event.  For financial assets in stage 3, the Group will continue 
to recognise lifetime ECL but they will now recognise interest income on a net basis. As such, 
interest income will be calculated based on the gross carrying amount of the financial asset less 
ECL. 	
An asset is credit-impaired if one or more events have occurred that have a detrimental impact on the 
estimated future cash flows of the asset. 
The changes in the loss allowance balance are recognised in profit or loss as an impairment gain or 
loss.
The Simplified approach
Under the simplified approach, the Group measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime 
expected credit losses.

114
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments (Continued)
ii. Debt instruments (Continued)
c) Impairment (Continued)
Definition of default
The Group will consider a financial asset to be in default when:
	
■the counterparty or borrower is unlikely to pay their credit obligations to the Group in full, without 
recourse by the Group to actions such as realising security (if any is held); or
	
■the counterparty or borrower is more than 90 days past due on any material credit obligation 
to the Group. This will be consistent with the rebuttable criteria set out by IFRS 9 and existing 
practice of the Group; or
In assessing whether the counterparty or borrower is in default, the Group considers indicators that are:
	
■Qualitative: e.g. Breach of covenant and other indicators of financial distress;
	
■Quantitative: e.g. Overdue status and non-payment of another obligation of the same issuer to 
the Company; and
	
■Based on data developed internally and obtained from external sources. 
	
■Inputs into the assessment of whether a financial instrument is in default and their significance 
may vary over time to reflect changes in circumstances. 
Significant increase in credit risk (SIICR)
When determining whether the credit risk (i.e. risk of default) on a financial instrument has increased 
significantly since initial recognition, the Group considers reasonable and supportable information that 
is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative 
information and analysis based on the Group’s historical experience, expert credit assessment and 
forward-looking information.
The Group primarily identifies whether a significant increase in credit risk has occurred for an exposure 
by comparing:
	
■The remaining lifetime probability of default (PD) as at the reporting date; with
	
■The remaining lifetime PD for this point in time that was estimated on initial recognition of the 
exposure.

115
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments (Continued)
ii. Debt instruments (Continued)
c) Impairment (Continued)
Significant increase in credit risk (SIICR) (continued)
The assessment of significant deterioration is key in establishing the point of switching between the 
requirement to measure an allowance based on 12-month expected credit losses and one that is 
based on lifetime expected credit losses.
The Group monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify significant increases in credit risk 
by regular reviews to confirm that:
	
■the criteria are capable of identifying significant increases in credit risk before an exposure is 
in default;
	
■the criteria do not align with the point in time when an asset becomes 30 days past due;
	
■the average time between the identification of a significant increase in credit risk and default 
appears reasonable;
	
■exposures are not generally transferred from 12-month ECL measurement to credit-impaired; 
and
	
■there is no unwarranted volatility in loss allowance from transfers between 12-month and 
lifetime ECL measurements.
Measurement of ECL
The key inputs into the measurement of ECL are the term structures of the following variables: 
	
■Probability of Default (PD)
	
■Loss given default (LGD) and
	
■Exposure at default (EAD)
To determine lifetime and 12-month PDs, the Group uses externally developed PD tables based on 
the default history of obligors with the same credit rating. The Group adopts the same approach for 
unrated investments by mapping external credit ratings. Changes in the rating for a counterparty or 
exposure lead to a change in the estimate of the associated PD.
LGD is the magnitude of the likely loss if there is a default. The Group estimates LGD parameters 
based on the history of recovery rates of claims against defaulted counterparties. The LGD models 
consider the structure, collateral, seniority of the claim, counterparty industry and recovery costs of 
any collateral that is integral to the financial asset. 
EAD represents the expected exposure in the event of a default. The Group derives the EAD from the 
current exposure to the counterparty and potential changes to the current amount allowed under the 
contract, including amortisation, and prepayments. The EAD of a financial asset is its gross carrying 
amount.

116
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments (Continued)
ii. Debt instruments (Continued)
c) Impairment (Continued)
Measurement of ECL (Continued)
Measurement of ECL (Continued) As described above, and subject to using a maximum of a 12-month 
PD for financial assets for which credit risk has not significantly increased, the Group measures ECL 
considering the risk of default over the maximum contractual period over which it is exposed to credit 
risk, even if, for risk management purposes, the Group considers a longer period. Where modelling of 
a parameter is carried out on a collective basis, the financial instruments are grouped on the basis of 
shared risk characteristics, which include: instrument type; credit risk grading; collateral type; date of 
initial recognition; remaining term to maturity.
The groupings are subject to regular review to ensure that exposures within a group remain 
appropriately homogeneous.
When ECLs are measured using parameters based on collective modelling, a significant input into the 
measurement of ECL is the external benchmark information that the Group uses to derive the default 
rates of its portfolios. This includes the PDs provided by rating agencies.
Trade and other receivables
Expected credit losses are computed as a product of the Probability of Default (PD), Loss Given Default 
(LGD) and the Exposure at Default (EAD).
ECL = PD x LGD x EAD
d)	Modification of contracts 
The Group rarely renegotiates or otherwise modifies the contractual cash flows of securities. When 
this happens, the Group assesses whether or not the new terms are substantially different to the 
original terms. The Group does this by considering, among others, the following factors:
	
■If the counterparty is in financial difficulty
	
■Whether any substantial new terms are introduced that affect the risk profile of the instrument
	
■Significant extension of the contract term when the borrower is not in financial difficulty
	
■Significant change in interest rate
	
■Change in the currency the security is denominated in
	
■Inclusion of collateral, other security or credit enhancements that significantly affect the credit 
risk associated with the loan.
If the terms are substantially different, the Group derecognises the original financial asset and 
recognises a ‘new’ asset at fair value and recalculates a new EIR for the asset. The date of renegotiation 
is consequently considered the date of initial recognition for impairment calculation purposes, 
including the purpose of determining whether a SICR has occurred. 

117
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments (Continued)
ii. Debt instruments (Continued)
d) Modification of contracts (Continued)
If the terms are not substantially different and the renegotiation or modification does not result in 
derecognition, the Group recalculates the gross carrying amount based on the revised cash flows of 
the financial asset and recognises a modification gain or loss in profit or loss. The new gross carrying 
amount is recalculated by discounting the modified cash flows at the original EIR.
e) Write off policy
The Group writes off financial assets, in whole or in part when it has exhausted all practical recovery 
effort and has concluded that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is 
no reasonable expectation of recovery include (i) ceasing enforcement activity; and (ii) the Group is 
foreclosing on collateral and the value of the collateral is such as there is no reasonable expectation 
of recovering in full.
The Group may write-off financial assets that are still subject to enforcement activity. The Group still 
seeks to recover amounts it is legally owed in full, but which have been partially written off due to no 
reasonable expectation of full recovery
3.11 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and 
demand deposits and other short term liquid investments which are readily convertible into known 
amounts of cash and which were within three months of maturity when acquired, less advances from 
banks repayable within three months from the dates of the advances.
3.12 Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current income tax and deferred income tax.
Current income tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.  Taxable profit differs from profit as 
reported in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income because of items of income 
or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible.  
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Management establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the 
tax authorities.

118
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.12 Taxation (Continued)
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable 
profit.  
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences are 
utilised.  
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from good 
will or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities 
in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying amount of 
deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be 
recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax liabilities 
and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is 
settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted by the end of the reporting period.  
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow 
from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the 
carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Current and deferred income tax for the year
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are 
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred 
tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income.
3.13 Employee entitlements
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is 
made for the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the 
date of reporting.
3.14 Segmental reporting
The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided 
to the chief operating decision maker (Group management). An operating segment is a component of the 
Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including 
revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. Costs in the 
NSE are managed holistically across the Exchange and variances against budget are closely monitored. 
Information technology and corporate overheads are not generally allocated to a particular segment. 

119
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
 3. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
3.15 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a defined contribution provident scheme for all its employees.  The scheme is 
administered by Britam Life Assurance Company (Kenya) Limited and is funded by contributions from 
both the Group and employees. The Group also contributes to a statutory contribution pension scheme, 
the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). The Group’s obligations under the scheme are limited to specific 
contributions legislated from time to time. The Group’s contributions to these schemes are charged to the 
profit or loss in the year in which they relate.
3.16 Dividends payable
Dividends payable on ordinary shares are charged to retained earnings in the period in which they are 
declared. Proposed dividends are not accrued for until ratified in an Annual General Meeting.
3.17 Earnings per share
The Group presents earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shareholders in the financial statements. 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the NSE by 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined 
by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares outstanding adjusted for the effects of all potentially dilutive shares.
3.19 Minimum liquid net worth requirement 
The Capital Markets (Derivatives Market) Regulations, 2015 clause 15 (1) and 15 (2) require that a futures 
exchange have and maintain a minimum liquid net-worth equal to one half of the estimated gross operating 
costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve (12) month period or such other liquid net-worth amount 
as may be prescribed by the Authority. The requirement is met as per Note 36.
3.20 Comparatives
Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform to changes in the presentation in 
the current year.

120
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
4.	Accounting Judgments And Key Sources Of Estimation Uncertainity
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management makes estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgments are 
continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas of judgment and estimation in applying the entities accounting policies are dealt with below:
Taxes
The Group is subjected to numerous taxes and levies by various government and quasi- government regulatory 
bodies. As a rule of thumb, the Group recognises liabilities for the anticipated tax/levies payable with utmost 
care and diligence. However, judgment is usually required in the interpretation and applicability of those taxes/
levies. Should it come to the attention of management, in one way or the other, that the initially recorded 
liability was erroneous, such differences will impact on the income and liabilities in the period in which such 
differences are determined.
Valuation of financial instruments
The fair value of financial instruments where no active market exists or where quoted prices are not otherwise 
available are determined by using valuation techniques. In these cases, the fair values are estimated from 
observable data in respect of similar financial instruments or using models. Where market observable inputs are 
not available, they are estimated based on appropriate assumptions. Where valuation techniques (for example, 
models) are used to determine fair values, they are validated and periodically reviewed by qualified personnel 
independent of those that sourced them. The directors believe that the chosen valuation techniques and 
assumptions used in the valuation of its investments are appropriate in determining the fair value of financial 
instruments. 
Valuation of land and building
The fair value model has been applied in accounting for land and building. The Group commissioned external, 
independent and professionally qualified real estate valuers that hold recognised relevant professional 
qualification and have recent experience in the location and type of property valued to determine the fair value 
of the property as at 31 December 2021 and 2020 on the basis of open market value. The current use of the 
portion of the land and building accounted for as investment property equates to the highest and best use. 
The valuation of the land and building is derived by making reference to recent comparable sales transactions 
in the relevant property market. The Group’s land and building are valued by reference to a level 2 fair value 
measurement. 

121
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
5.	Operating Segments
The Group entities are all domiciled in Kenya. The Group has two main business segments:
	
■
Cash equities and interest rate market segment comprises the equities and bond trading business. This 
includes other income comprising broker back office income, rental income, data fees and other incomes; 
and
	
■
Derivatives market segment comprises of the futures trading business. The market was launched in July 
2020.
Each business segment offers different products and services and is managed separately because each requires 
different technology and a different marketing strategy. The information provided about each segment is based 
on the internal reports about segment profit or loss, assets and other information, which are regularly reviewed 
by Group management (the chief operating decision maker) and the Board. The segment results were as follows:

122
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
5. Operating Segments (Continued)
Statement of financial position
Cash equities and interest rate market
Derivatives 
market
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
2021
ASSETS
Government securities
365,598
-
365,598
Long-term restricted investments
-
144,333
144,333
Short-term restricted cash and investments
238,652
-
238,652
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
426,340
1,855
428,195
Other assets
1,038,252
7,809
1,046,061
––––––––
––––––––
–––––––––
2,068,842
153,997
2,222,839
=======
=======
=======
LIABILITIES
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contribution
-
11,750
11,750
Trade and other payables 
40,322
4,168
44,490
Dividends payable
67,070
-
67,070
Tenant deposits
2,215
-
2,215
Trading members’ contributions
-
2,400
2,400
––––––––
––––––––
–––––––
109,607
18,318
127,925
======
======
=====
2020
ASSETS
Government securities
281,144
-
281,144
Long-term restricted investments
-
170,938
170,938
Short-term restricted cash and investments
243,488
-
243,488
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
529,176
41
529,217
Other assets
1,079,004
9,355
1,088,359
––––––––
––––––––
–––––––––
2,132,812
180,334
2,313,146
=======
=======
========
LIABILITIES
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contribution
-
35,250
35,250
Trade and other payables 
47,305
2,889
50,194
Dividends payable
32,066
-
32,066
Tenant deposits
3,233
-
3,233
Trading members’ contributions
-
2,200
2,200
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
82,604
40,339
122,943
=======
=======
========
2021
Additions to non-current assets
(67,757)
(25,152)
(92,909)
=======
=======
=======
Non-current assets
927,306
150,206
1,077,512
=======
=======
=======
2020
Additions to non-current assets
(109,589)
(26,926)
(136,515)
=======
=======
=======
Non-current assets
995,063
175,358
1,170,421
=======
=======
=======

123
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
5. Operating Segments (Continued)
Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
Cash equities and 
interest rate market
Derivatives 
market
Total 
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000 
2021
Revenue
550,593
-
550,593
Interest income
94,078
11,674
105,752
Other income
55,934
1,988
57,922
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total income
700,605
13,662
714,267
Administrative expenses 
(489,022)
(10,988)
(500,010)
Share of profit of associate
(3,389)
-
(3,389)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Profit before income tax
208,194
2,674
210,868
=======
=======
=======
2020
 
Revenue
548,257
-
548,257
Interest income
68,204
16,934
85,138
Other income
36,513
31
36,544
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Total income
652,974
16,965
669,939
Administrative expenses 
(458,630)
(8,582)
(467,212)
Share of profit of associate
16,187
-
16,187
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Profit before income tax
210,531
8,383
218,914
=======
=======
=======
All revenues are earned in Kenya. There are no revenues derived from transactions with a single external customer 
that amounted to 10% or more of the Group’s revenues.

124
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
Group
Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
6
Revenue
Revenue recognized at a point in time
Transaction levy
396,765
405,219
396,765
405,219
Initial listing fees
5,300
2,688
5,300
2,688
Application and additional listing fees
981
1,542
981
1,542
Unquoted securities platform fees
5,958
-
-
-
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
409,004
409,449
403,046
409,449
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Revenue recognized over time
Annual listing fees
65,760
69,918
65,760
69,918
Broker back office subscription
23,377
23,691
23,377
23,691
Market access fee
-
8,334
-
8,334
Data vending
52,452
36,865
52,452
36,865
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
141,589
138,808
141,589
138,808
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
550,593
548,257
544,635
548,257
======
    ======
======
  ======
7
Profit Before Income Tax
The profit before income tax is arrived at after 
charging/(crediting):
Employee benefits (note 8)
171,841
172,270
171,841
172,270
Depreciation of property and equipment (note 12)
29,512
33,559
29,511
33,558
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 14)
25,403
24,319
25,403
24,319
Directors’ emoluments: 
- Executive (note 31 a))
26,812
24,885
26,812
24,885
- Non–executive (note 31 a))
16,794
20,457
16,280
19,429
Auditor’s remuneration 
4,841
4,207
3,671
3,093
Gain/(loss) on disposal of equipment
1,443
(1)
1,443
(1)
Revaluation deficit on valuation of property (note 12 
and 13)
-
(379)
-
(379)
Increase/(decrease) in impairment of financial 
assets measured at amortised cost (note 34 (b) (iii))
1,266
3,966
140
4,043
======
======
======
=======
          

125
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
Group
Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
8
Employee Benefits
Salaries and wages
142,604
155,744
142,604
155,744
Bonus
11,647
-
11,647
-
Leave pay expense
3,511
1,239
3,511
1,239
Provident fund contribution
13,842
15,169
13,842
15,169
Social security costs (NSSF)
237
118
237
118
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
171,841
172,270 
171,841
172,270
======
======
======
======
        The staff numbers as at 31 December 2021 were 44 (2020: 49).  
9
Interest Income
Interest on term deposits
55,834
63,471
43,962
46,528
Interest on treasury bonds 
48,953
20,508
48,953
20,508
Interest on staff loans and advances
965
1,159
965
1,159
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
105,752
85,138
93,880
68,195
======
======
======
======
10
Other Income
Fair value gain on property
-
379
-
379
Rental income
9,069
10,317
9,069
10,317
Miscellaneous income
1,071
254
1,071
254
Training fees
2,479
1,639
2,480
1,639
M-Akiba fees
-
3
-
3
Private transfer fee
931
739
931
739
Nomad fees
375
400
375
400
Gain on disposal of equipment
2,458
1
2,458
1
Annual members fees 
3,350
3,650
3,350
3,650
            
Ibuka fees                                                                                           
1,670
234
1,670
234
Dividend income – quoted instrument
6,500
6,025
6,500
6,025
Surplus distributed by SGF
-
-
7,277
34,852
Gain on trading book
28,451
11,984
26,634
11,984
Management fees
-
-
1,325
1,695
IPF levy
58
8
-
-
Margin interest
113
23
-
-
Exchange gain
500
792
500
792
Derivatives fees
142
19
142
19
Equity levies market making
755
-
755
-
Unrealised gain on mark to market treasury bond
-
77
-
77
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
57,922
36,544
64,537
73,060
======
======
======
======

126
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
         Group
             Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
11
Taxation
a)	 Taxation charge
Current income tax
Current year expense
72,190
53,742
68,999
50,874
Deferred income tax (note 20)
Current year credit/(charge)
854
(2,746)
2,306
(1,312)
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
5,290
-
-
-
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
78,334
50,996
71,305
49,562
======
======
======
======
b)	 Reconciliation of taxation charge to the expected tax 
based on accounting profit
Profit before income tax
210,868
218,914
214,624
240,935
======
======
======
======
Tax calculated at a tax rate of 30% (2020: 25%)
63,260
62,167
64,387
60,233
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
10,913
-
8,047
-
Net tax effects on items not deductible for tax
(1,129)
(11,171)
(1,129)
(10,671)
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
5,290
-
-
-
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Income tax expense
78,334
50,996
71,305
49,562
======
======
=====
======
c)	Current income tax movement
At start of year
(19,222)
(52,982)
(15,405)
(50,017)
Charge to profit or loss
72,190
53,742
68,999
50,874
Tax paid
(85,391)
(19,982)
(80,842)
(16,262)
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
(32,423)
(19,222)
(27,248)
(15,405)
======
======
======
======
Made up of:
Current income tax recoverable
(32,511)
(19,277)
(27,248)
(15,405)
Current income tax payable
88
55
-
-
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
(32,423) 
(19,222)
(27,248)
(15,405)
======         ======
======       ======

127
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)	
12 	 Property And Equipment - Group
Building 
Motor 
vehicles
Furniture& 
fittings
Office 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
WIP
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
COST OR VALUATION 
At 1 January 2020
126,900
17,392
89,399
40,053
84,134
-
357,878
Additions
-
-
-
2,057
8,242
-
10,299
Disposals
-
-
-
(638)
(2,681)
-
(3,319)
Adjustments
(379)
-
-
-
-
-
(379)
Revaluation deficit
379
-
-
-
-
-
379
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At 1 January 2021
126,900
17,392
89,399
41,472
89,695
-
364,858
Additions
-
-
-
1,367
500
3,661
5,528
Disposals
-
(4,620)
-
(1,948)
(19,020)
-
(25,588)
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At 31 December 2021
126,900
12,772
89,399
40,891
71,175
3,661
344,798
–––––––
––––––
––––––
–––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
    
Comprising:
At valuation
126,900
-
-
-
-
-
126,900
At cost
-
12,772
89,399
40,891
71,175
3,661
217,898
–––––––
––––––
––––––
–––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Cost or valuation
126,900
12,772
89,399
40,891
71,175
3,660
344,798
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 2020
-
5,067
60,255
20,016
52,757
-
138,095
Charge for the year
-
4,348
10,916
6,849
11,446
-
33,559
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
-
(638)
(2,597)
-
(3,235)
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
At 1 January 2021
-
9,415
71,171
26,227
61,606
-
168,419
Charge for the year
-
3,578
8,871
6,745
10,318
-
29,512
Eliminated on disposal
-
(3,946)
-
(1,623)
(18,946)
-
(24,515)
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
At 31 December 2021
-
9,047
80,042
31,349
52,978
-
173,416
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2021
126,900
3,725
9,357
9,542
18,197
3,661
171,382
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======
At 31 December 2020
126,900
7,977
18,228
15,245
28,089
-
196,439
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======

128
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
12 Property And Equipment (Continued) - Company
Building
Motor 
vehicles
Furniture& 
fittings
Office 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
WIP
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
COST OR VALUATION 
At 1 January 2020
126,900
17,392
89,399
40,049
84,134
-
357,874
Additions
-
-
-
2,057
8,242
-
10,299
Disposals
-
-
-
(638)
(2,681)
-
(3,319)
Adjustments
(379)
-
-
-
-
-
(379)
Revaluation surplus
379
-
-
-
-
-
379
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At 1 January 2021
126,900
17,392
89,399
41,468
89,695
-
364,854
Additions
-
-
-
1,367
500
3,661
5,528
Disposals
-
(4,620)
-
(1,948)
(19,020)
-
(25,588)
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At 31 December 2021
126,900
12,772
89,399
40,887
71,175
3,661
344,794
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
    
Comprising:
At valuation
126,900
-
-
-
-
-
126,900
At cost
-
12,772
89,399
40,887
71,175
3,661
217,894
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Cost or valuation
126,900
12,772
89,399
40,887
71,175
3,661
344,794
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 2020
-
5,067
60,255
20,016
52,757
-
138,095
Charge for the year
-
4,348
10,916
6,848
11,446
-
33,558
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
-
(638)
(2,597)
-
(3,235)
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
At 1 January 2021
-
9,415
71,171
26,226
61,606
-
168,418
Charge for the year
-
3,578
8,871
6,744
10,318
-
29,511
Eliminated on disposal
-
(3,946)
-
(1,623)
(18,946)
-
(24,515)
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
At 31 December 2021
-
9,047
80,042
31,347
52,978
-
173,414
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2021
126,900
3,725
9,357
9,540
18,197
3,661
171,380
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======
At 31 December 2020
126,900
7,977
18,228
15,242
28,089
-
196,436
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======

129
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
12	 Property And Equipment (Continued) - Group And Company
No depreciation has been charged in arriving at the result for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated 
equipment with a cost of Kshs 115.9 million (2020: Kshs 63.5 million) which are still in use. If depreciation 
had been charged during the year on the cost of these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to 
Kshs 13.2 million (2020: Kshs 12.6 million).
The building has been stated at its revalued amounts, being the fair value at 31 December 2021 less any 
subsequent depreciation. The revaluation was done on the basis of market comparable approach reflecting 
the highest and best use by Tysons Limited, an independent registered valuer.
13	 Investment Property - Group And Company
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
VALUATION
At 1 January and 31 December 
313,100
313,100
======
======
The fair value of the Group’s investment property at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020 have been 
arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020 by Tysons 
Limited, an independent registered valuer. The fair value was adjusted for in the books of the Group and 
Company. The fair value was determined based on the market comparable approach that reflects recent 
transaction prices for similar properties. In estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best 
use of the properties is their current use. There has been no change to the valuation technique during the 
year.
The following table gives information about how the fair values of these non-financial assets are determined 
(in particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used).
Fair value as at
Fair value 
hierarchy
Valuation 
technique(s) and 
key inputs
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Relationship of 
unobservable 
inputs to fair 
value
31/12/21
Kshs’000
31/12/20
Kshs’000
Buildings
126,900
126,900 Level 2
Market comparable 
approach- Highest 
and best use
N/A
N/A
Investment
 property
313,100
313,100 Level 2
––––––––
––––––––
Total
440,000
440,000
======= 
=======

130
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
14 	 Intangible Assets - Group And Company
Automated 
trading 
system 
software
Other 
software
Broker back 
office
software
Bond 
software 
license
Derivatives 
software
WIP
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
COST
At 1 January 2020
72,443
40,877
75,195
38,191
54,338
933
281,977
Additions
7,202
2,031
-
-
-
1,615
10,848
Transfer from WIP
371
506
-
-
-
(877)
-
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At 1 January 2021
80,016
43,414
75,195
38,191
54,338
1,671
292,825
Additions
63
513
2,756
-
-
316
3,648
Disposals
-
(8,521)
-
-
-
-
(8,521)
Transfer from WIP
-
1,672
-
-
-
(1,672)
-
––––––––
–––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
At 31 December 2021
80,079
37,078
77,951
38,191
54,338
315
287,952
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
AMORTISATION
At 1 January 2020
1,791
26,375
51,033
38,191
2,566
-
119,956
Amortisation for the year 
7,536
3,830
7,519
-
5,434
-
24,319
–––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At 1 January 2021
9,327
30,205
58,552
38,191
8,000
-
144,275
Amortisation for the year 
8,006
4,352
7,611
-
5,434
-
25,403
Eliminated on disposal
-
(7,943)
-
-
-
-
(7,943)
–––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At 31 December 2021
17,333
26,614
66,163
38,191
13,434
-
161,735
–––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
––––––––
–––––––
–––––––
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2021
62,746
10,464
11,788
-
40,904
315
126,217
======
=====
======
======
======
======
======
At 31 December 2020
70,689
13,209
16,643
-
46,338
1,671
148,550
======
=====
======
======
======
======
======
No amortisation has been charged in arriving at the results for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated intangible assets with 
a cost of Kshs 53.9 million (2020: Kshs 60.9 million) which are still in use. If depreciation had been charged during the year on the 
cost of these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to Kshs 13.5 million (2020: Kshs 15.2 million).

131
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
15	 Investment In Associate 
The investment in associate represents an investment in Central Depository and Settlement 
Corporation Limited (CDSC). The Group held an ownership percentage of 40.5% at 31 December 
2021 (2020: 40.5%). The proportion of the voting rights in the associate held by the Company does 
not differ from the proportion of ordinary shares held. 
a)	 Details of the associate at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Country of incorporation and 
operation
Number of shares held by 
NSE @ Kshs 100 per share
Proportion of ownership interest 
and voting power held by NSE
Group
2021
2020
2021
2020
CDSC
Kenya
708,750
708,750
40.5%
40.5%
=======
=======
======
======
Company
CDSC
Kenya
393,750
393,750
22.5%
22.5%
=======
=======
======
======
The principal activity of the associate is provision of automated clearing, delivery and settlement 
facilities in respect of transactions carried out at the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC.
The Group shareholding in AKS Nominees Ltd is 88.8% (2020: 88.8%) as disclosed in note 16). AKS 
holds an 18% shareholding in the ordinary shares of the CDSC in 2021 (2020: 18%).
b)	 The movement in the balance is as follows:	
Group
Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
At start of year 
287,667
276,441
140,905
134,731
Share of profit for the year (note 15 (e))
(3,389)
16,187
(1,910)
8,930
Share of other comprehensive income
  for the year (note 15 (e))
108
(101)
60
(56)
Dividends received
(47,634)
(4,860)
(26,436)
(2,700)
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
236,752
287,667
112, 619
140,905
======
======
======
======

132
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
15 Investment In Associate (Continued)
c)	 Summarised financial information in  respect of the associate is set out below:
Total assets
615,203
667,865
615,203
667,865
Total liabilities 
(114,673)
(41,619)
(114,673)
(41,619)
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Net assets
500,530
626,246
500,530
626,246
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Group’s share of net assets of associate
202,715
253,630
112,619
140,905
======
======
======
======
Total revenue for the year
290,481
323,903
290,481
323,903
======
======
======
======
Total profit for the year
(7,256)
40,496
(7,256)
40,496
======
======
======
======
Group
Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
d)	 Reconciliation of share of net assets of associate to investment in associate
Share of net assets (note 15 (c)
202,715
253,630
112,619
140,905
Goodwill 
34,037
34,037
-
-
–––––––
––––––
––––––
––––––
Balance as statement of financial position
236,752
287,667
112,619
140,905
======
======
======
======
e)	 Share of profit of the associate:
Company
Being the direct shareholding at 22.5% 
(2020 – 22.5%)
Share of (loss)/profit of associate 
(3,389)
8,930
(1,910)
8,930
Share of other comprehensive income 
108
(56)
60
(56)
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
(3,281)
8,874
(1,850)
8,874
======
======
======
======

133
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
15 Investment In Associate (Continued)
e) Share of profit of the associate (continued)
Group
Being the direct shareholding at 22.5% (2020: 22.5%) (as 
computed for Company above) and the indirect shareholding 
at 18% from the acquisition date (2020 – 18%)
Indirect shareholding at 18% (2020 – 18%)
Share of (loss)/ profit of associate 
(1,479)
7,257
-
-
Share of other comprehensive income 
48
(45)
-
-
––––––––
–––––––
––––––––
––––––––
(1,431)
7,212
-
-
=======
======
=======
=======
Total group share of profit and OCI at 40.5% (2020 – 
40.5%)
Total share of (loss)/ profit of associate 
(3,389)
16,187
(1,910)
8,930
Total share of other comprehensive income 
60
(101)
60
(56)
––––––––
–––––––
––––––––
––––––––
(3,326)
16,086
(1,850)
8,874
=======
======
=======
=======
16	 Investment In Subsidiaries And Structured Entities - Company
Principal activity
Holding
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Investment in subsidiaries
Investment in NSE Clear Limited (note a)
Clearing house
100%
20,000
20,000
Investment in AKS Nominees Ltd (note b)
Investment
88.8%
111,899
111,899
–––––––
–––––––
131,899
131,899
–––––––
–––––––
Investment in structured entities (note c):
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
Settlement guarantee fund
100,000
100,000
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
Investor protection fund
10,000
10,000
–––––––
–––––––
110,000
110,000
–––––––
––––––––
241,899
241,899
=======
=======
	
	
	
	
	
	
a)	Investment in subsidiary – NSE Clear Limited
NSE Clear Limited was incorporated as a limited liability company on 4 February 2014 under the Companies 
Act (Cap. 486) with a share capital of Kenya Shillings One Hundred Thousand (Kshs 100,000) divided into 
One Hundred (100) ordinary shares of Kenya Shillings One Thousand (Kshs 1,000) each. It is a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. The subsidiary is domiciled in Kenya.

134
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued) 
The principal objectives of the subsidiary are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to 
provide clearing and settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether carried out on or 
off a securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative securities transactions and to carry 
out all activities that pertain to a clearing house.
The license to operate a Derivatives Exchange was granted to the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited on 
19 October 2015. The derivatives market was launched in July 2019.
b)	Investment in subsidiary – AKS Nominees Ltd
The Group shareholding in AKS Nominees Ltd (AKS) is 88.8% (2020: 88.8%) for a consideration of Kshs 
112 million (2020: Kshs 112 million). AKS holds an 18% shareholding in the ordinary shares of the CDSC 
in 2021 (2020 – 18%).
The principal activity of the subsidiary is holding equity shares in CDSC in trust for its members who are 
authorised to operate as stockbrokers and investment banks in the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE).
c)	Investment in structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable 
trust under the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 
2015 and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) Derivatives Rules. The main purpose of the Settlement 
Guarantee Fund is to settle specified claims by derivatives members arising out of transactions in derivative 
securities.
The NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust 
under the Trustee Act (Cap167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015, 
the NSE Investor Protection Fund Rules and the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) Compensation Rules 
and Procedures. The main purpose for the Investor Protection Fund is to satisfy specified claims by the 
investing public arising out non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members or losses 
incurred by reason of the default of trading members.
d)	Non-controlling interest (NCI)	
	
	
	
The total NCI at 31 December 2021 is Kshs 17,518,000 (2020: Kshs 15,509,000) all of which relates to AKS 
Nominees Limited at 11% shareholding (2020: 11%).
The following table summarises the financial information relating to the Group’s company that has 
significant non-controlling interest.

135
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
16     Investment In Subsidiaries And Structured Entities – Company (Continued)
d) Non-controlling interest (NCI)	
2021
2020
Kshs’000’
Kshs’000
Total assets
160,406
139,942
Total liabilities
(1,535)
(1,365)
–––––––
–––––––
Net assets
158,871
138,577
======
======
Revenue
21,346
2,169
======
======
Profit before tax
20,367
1,046
Taxation
(59)
(2)
–––––––
–––––––
Total comprehensive income
20,308
  1,044
======
======
Reconciliation of NCI
Movement in the non-controlling interest is as follows:
At start of the year
15,509
56,113
Reduction in NCI on additional shareholding
  in subsidiary
-
(40,721)
NCI’s share of profit 
2,009
117
–––––––
–––––––
17,518
15,509
======
======
17	 Financial Assets At Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income- Quoted Equity Instruments – 
Group And Company
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
At start of year
48,720
49,880
Fair value gain/(loss) through other comprehensive income
26,613
(1,160)
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
75,333
48,720
======
======
Quoted ordinary shares at face value through other comprehensive income are classified as non-current 
assets. At the year end, these are valued at the closing market share price at the Dar-Es-Salaam stock 
exchange on the last day of trading of the year.

136
Annual Report 2021 | nse.co.ke
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued) 
18	 Government Securities – Group And Company
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
At fair value through profit or loss
Treasury bonds held for trading
375,627
283,126
Less: Fair value losses
(6,385)
(1,982)
Unamortized balance
(3,644)
-
–––––––
–––––––
365,598
281,144
=======
=======
The weighted average effective interest rate on the treasury bonds at fair value through profit or loss for 
year ended 31 December 2021 was 14.4 % (2020: 12.7%).
19	 Long-Term Restricted Investments	 	
	
	
	
Fixed deposit and interest capitalized held with the Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited and maturing 
within 180 days in the name of:
          Group
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
NSE Clear Limited
20,005
20,022
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
114,033
138,966
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
11,878
12,445
––––––––
––––––––
145,916
171,433
Less: provision for expected credit losses
(1,583)
(495)
––––––––
––––––––
144,333
170,938
=======
=======
The restricted investments relate to the seed capital contributions by the NSE on 19 August 2015 to the 
NSE Clear Limited, the NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and the NSE Derivatives Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF) of Kshs 20 million, Kshs 100 million and Kshs 10 million respectively towards their 
operations.

137
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
20	 Deferred Income Tax
Deferred income tax is calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method using a principal 
tax rate of 30% (2020: 30%) The net deferred tax asset is attributable to the following items:
          Group
           Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
Accelerated capital allowances 
(4,399)
(1,639)
(4,399)
(1,639)
Straight-lined rental income
(693)
(985)
(693)
(985)
Unrealized foreign exchange loss/(gain)
65
(116)
65
(116)
Leave provision
441
329
441
329
Tax losses
5,710
4,747
-
476
Provision for expected credit losses
4,095
4,054
3,934
3,905
Fair value loss on equity instruments at FVTOCI
1,894
-
1,894
-
Treasury bond amortization
(2,960)
(1,383)
(2,960)
(1,383)
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
(5,290)
–––––––
––––––
–––––––
–––––––
(1,137)
5,007
       (1,719) 
587
======
=====
======
======
The movement in the deferred income tax asset is as 
follows:
At start of year
5,007
6,865
587
3,879
Credit/(charge) to profit or loss (note 11 a))
(854)
2,746
(2,306)
1,312
(Charge)/credit to other comprehensive income
-
(4,604)
-
(4,604)
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
(5,290)
-
-
-
–––––––
––––––– 
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
(1,137)
5,007
(1,719)
587
======
======
======
======
21    Trade And Other Receivables 
a)	 Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables
42,228
34,365
42,228
34,365
Prepayments and deposits
22,478
9,950
22,478
9,950
Other receivables
17,559
24,389
17,559
23,470
Due from trading member
10,012
9,300
10,012
9,300
Clearing balances
2,984
1,063
-
-
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
95,261
79,067
92,277
77,085
Less: Provision for expected credit losses (note b))
(2,842)
(9,413)
(2,842)
(9,413)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
92,419
69,654
89,435
67,672
=======
=======
=======
=======

138
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
21 Trade And Other Receivables (Continued)
Group
Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
b)	  Provision for expected credit losses
Movements in the provisions for expected credit losses were 
as follows:
At start of year
9,413
6,644
9,413
6,644
Charge in the year
679
2,769
679
2,769
Recovered in the year
(2,485)
-
(2,485)
-
Written off in the year
(4,765)
-
(4,765)
-
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
At end of year (note a))
2,842
9,413
2,842
9,413
======
======
======
======
22  Cash And Cash Equivalents And Short-Term Restricted 
Cash & Investments
Call deposits
32,714
113,242
32,714
113,242
Fixed deposits
601,242
650,149
585,409
650,149
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Total short-term deposits (note 23)
633,956
763,391
618,123
763,391
Bank and cash balances
26,812
10,935
15,223
9,214
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Total bank and cash balances and deposits 
660,768
774,326
633,346
772,605
Less provision for expected credit losses on:
Call and fixed deposits (note 23)
(3,601)
(1,565)
(3,601)
(1,565)
Bank and cash balances
(332)
(56)
(326)
(56)
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
656,835
772,705
629,419
770,984
======
======
======
======
Split into:
Short-term restricted investments (note 35)
238,652
243,488
238,652
243,488
Cash and cash equivalents
374,417
402,748
362,834
401,027
Fixed deposits – maturity of three months to six months (note 23)
43,766
126,469
27,933
126,469
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
656,835
772,705
629,419
770,984
======
======
======
======
 

139
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)	
Group
Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
23  Short Term Deposits
Maturing within three months:
Fixed deposits
557,382
523,660
557,382
523,660
Call deposits
32,714
113,242
32,714
113,242
––––––––
–––––––
––––––––
–––––––
590,096
636,902
590,096
636,902
Less: Provision for expected credit losses
(3,481)
(1,601)
(3,481)
(1,601)
––––––––
–––––––
––––––––
–––––––
586,615
635,301
586,615
635,301
======
======
=======
======
Maturing after three months to six months:
Fixed deposits
43,860
126,489
28,027
126,489
Less: provision for expected credit losses
(94)
(20)
(94)
(20)
––––––––
–––––––
––––––––
–––––––
43,766
126,469
27,933
126,469
======
======
=======
======
Gross total - call and fixed deposits (note 22)
633,956
763,391
618,123
763,391
Total provision for expected credit losses
(3,601)
(1,565)
(3,601)
(1,565)
––––––––
–––––––
––––––––
–––––––
Net total - call and fixed deposits
630,355
761,826
614,522
761,826
======
======
=======
======
The deposits are classified and measured at amortised cost.
The gross carrying deposits were held at the following 
institutions:
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
140,502
224,581
124,669
224,581
Equity Bank Kenya Limited
172,082
122,034
172,082
122,034
Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Limited
151,486
148,240
151,486
148,240
Kenya Commercial Bank Limited
-
140,366
-
140,366
NCBA Bank Kenya PLC
169,886
128,170
169,886
128,170
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
633,956
763,391
618,123
763,391
======
======
======
======
The weighted average effective interest rate on the deposits as at 31 December 2021 was 8.3 %. (2020: 7.4%).

140
Annual Report 2021 | nse.co.ke
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)	
          Group
           Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
24
Share Capital
Authorised share capital:
At start and end of year:
375,000,000 ordinary shares of Kshs 4 each
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
========
========
========
========
Issued and fully paid up:
At start of the year:
1,038,003
1,038,003
1,038,003
1,038,003
(259,500,791 ordinary shares of Kshs 4 each)
Issue of shares to the employees share ownership plan:
2,014
-
2,014
-
(503,529 shares of Kshs 4 each)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
At end of year
1,040,017
1,038,003
1,040,017
1,038,003
(260,004,320 ordinary shares of Kshs 4 each)
========
========
=======
========
25 Share Premium
At start of the year:
277,185
277,185
277,185
277,185
Issue of shares at a premium to the employees share 
ownership plan:
1,394
-
1,394
-
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
278,579
277,185
278,579
277,185
======
======
======
=======
503,529 ordinary shares were issued in March 2021 to Employees Share Ownership plan at a market price of Kshs 6.77.
          Group
           Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
26
Settlement Guarantee Fund - 
Member’s Contributions
  Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
11,750
11,750
-
-
  Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited
-
23,500
-
-
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
11,750
35,250
-
-
======
======
======
======
The contributions were received in cash in 2019. These are refundable contributions made by clearing members 
to the Settlement Guarantee Fund to cover any claims arising from non-settlement of margins. Each clearing 
member’s contribution is currently at Kshs 23.5 million. The balance of Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited 
contributions of Kshs 11.75 million was provided through a bank guarantee of the same amount issued by KCB 
Bank Kenya Limited on 5th July 2020. Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited ceased to be a clearing member in June 2021.
	

141
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)	
         Group
          Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
27 Trade And Other Payables
a)   Non-current portion
Tenant deposits
2,216
3,233
2,216
3,233
=====
======
=====
=====
b)   Current portion
Accrued expenses
18,937
31,499
14,707
29,887
Trade payables
11,524
5,283
11,524
5,283
Other payables
8,785
7,846
8,785
7,846
Staff leave accrual
1,469
1,098
1,469
1,098
Amount payable to Capital Markets Authority
1,688
1,773
1,688
1,773
Tenant deposits
12
-
12
-
Amount payable to associate (note 30 f))
100
734
100
734
Clearing balances
1,975
1,961
-
-
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
44,490
50,194
38,285
46,621
======
======
======
======
28 Dividends Payable 	
The dividends payable represent the first and final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 up to 31 December 2021 
not paid at year end. The movement in dividends payable during the year was as follows: -	 	
	
         Group
          Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
At start of year
32,066
30,876
31,440
30,376
Declared amount for prior years
137,535
23,151
137,535
20,760
Special dividend declared in the year
130,002
-
130,002
-
Paid during the year
(232,533)
(21,961)
(232,533)
(19,696)
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
67,070
32,066
66,444
31,440
=======
=======
======
======

142
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
         Group
          Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 29
Cash Flows From Operating     Activities
Profit before income tax
210,868
218,914
214,624
240,935
Adjustments for:
Depreciation (note 12)
29,513
33,559
29,512
33,558
Amortisation (note 14)
25,403
24,319
25,403
24,319
Share of results of associate (note 15 (b)) 
3,389
(16,187)
1,910
(8,930)
Interest income (note 9)
(105,752)
(85,139)
(93,880)
(68,195)
Gain on disposal of equipment 
(2,466)
-
(2,466)
(1)
(Surplus)/deficit on revaluation of building (note 12)
-
(379)
-
(379)
Surplus distributed by SGF
-
(2,160)
-
-
Issue of ESOP shares
3,408
-
3,408
-
Working capital changes:
Increase in trade and other receivables
(22,055)
(2,190)
(21,051)
(468)
Decrease in short-term restricted cash
Decrease in trade and other payables
(5,589)
(35,652)
(8,336)
(37,242)
(Decrease)/increase in tenant deposits
(1,018)
1,404
(1,018)
1,404
Movement in related party balances
-
-
(6,387)
(3,420)
Increase in trading members contributions
200
(200)
-
-
   
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Cash generated from operations
135,901
136,289
141,719
181,581
======
======
======
======
30  Earnings Per Share - Basic And Diluted	
	
	
	
	
	
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the net profit per year by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year.
Group
Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Net profit attributable to owners of the Group (Kshs’000)
130,525
167,918
143,319
191,373
======
======
======
======
Number of shares at 31 December (in thousands)
260,004
259,501
260,004
259,501
======
======
======
======
Basic and diluted earnings per share – Kshs
0.50
0.65
0.55
0.74
======
======
======
======

143
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
31 Related Party Transactions
The Group and Company are related to various parties by virtue of common shareholding. The shareholders exercise 
significant influence over the operations of the exchange.
At 31 December 2021, the Group had 9 stockbrokers (2020:9) and 6 licensed investment banks (2020:6) who are 
shareholders.  The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
	
        Group
            Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
31 Related Party Transactions
a)	 Directors’ emoluments
Non – executive
Directors fees and sitting allowances (including 
committees)
16,794
20,457
16,280
19,429
======
======
=====
=====
Executive
26,812
24,885
26,812
24,885
======           ===== 
=====
=====
Group and Company
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
b)	 Key management compensation
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits
61,969
65,137
Other long term benefits
3,907
3,971
–––––––
–––––––
65,876
69,108
======
======
c)	 Transactions with shareholders
The transactions carried out during the year with the brokers and investment banks who are related parties by virtue 
of shareholding are disclosed below:
The Group charges investors, through the brokers, a transaction levy of 0.12% (31 December 2020: 0.12%) of the 
value of equity securities traded at the Exchange. During the 12 months period ended 31 December 2021, the total 
turnover was Kshs 154,292 million (31 December 2020: Kshs 159,852 million) resulting in a transaction levy of Kshs 
185 million (31 December 2020: Kshs 191 million). NSE also charges investors, through brokers, a transaction levy 
of 0.0035% (31 December 2020 – 0.0035%) of the value of fixed income securities traded at the Exchange. The 
turnover for fixed income securities for the 12 months period ended 31 December 2021 was Kshs 1,302 billion (31 
December 2020: Kshs 1,010 billion), resulting in transaction levy of Kshs 45 million (31 December 2020: Kshs 35 
million).

144
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
31 Related Party Transactions (Continued)
           Group                  
                             Company
2021
2020
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
Transaction levy on - equity securities
185,151
191,822
185,151
191,822
Transaction levy on  - fixed income securities
45,563
35,363
45,563
35,363
Broker back office subscriptions
15,840
15,840
15,840
15,840
Data fee
1,766
1,929
1,766
1,929
Training
653
210
653
210
NOMAD fee
150
150
150
150
Annual membership fee
1,700
1,700
1,700
1,700
Sponsorship fees
-
300
-
300
Ibuka
80
-
80
-
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
250,903
247,314
250,903
247,314
======
======
======
======
d)	Transactions with companies related to directors 
The Company’s memorandum and articles of association requires that trading participants and listed companies to have two 
representatives each on the Board. The transactions listed below were carried out during the period with companies who the 
aforementioned representatives are directors.  
Group
Company
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
Stockbrokers and investment bank representatives
Transaction levy on - equity securities
32,218
27,671
Transaction levy on  - fixed income securities
8,344
3,713
Broker back office subscriptions
4,320
2,880
Training
380
30
NOMAD fees
75
50
Annual fee
600
400
Sponsorship fees
300
300
Ibuka fees
40
-
––––––
––––––
46,277
35,044
=====
=====
Allowances to broker company directors sitting on Committees but are not Group Directors    
43
129
=====
=====
Listed companies related to directors
Annual listing fees
4,500
4,500
Advertisement
-
-
Interest income on bank deposits
5,182
1,665
Purchase of data
213
213
Training
200
150
––––––
––––––
10,095
6,528
=====
=====

145
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
31 Related Party Transactions (Continued)
e)	Transactions with associate 	 	
During the period, transactions with CDSC Ltd were as follows:-
Expenses relating to:
Share registrar services and depository levies
398
3,319
Dividend processing	
-
628
Joint Board meetings
-
-
––––––
––––––
398
3,947
=====
=====
Net amounts payable to associate (note 21 (a) and note 26 (b))
100
734
=====
=====
               Company
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
31
Related Party Transactions (Continued)
f)	 Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities
i.	 During the period, transactions with NSE Clear Limited were as follows:- 
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Audit and tax fees
781
784
Board allowances
400
457
Income tax
241
151
Derivatives platform
921
-
CMA fees
500
-
Management fees
209
-
Other expenses
421
-
––––––
––––––
3,473
1,392
======
======
Amounts due from NSE Clear Limited
8,506
6,524
======
======
ii.	 During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Investor  Protection Fund (IPF) 
were as follows:-
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Trustee allowances 
400
457
Audit and tax fees
472
467
Income tax
9
24
Management fees
128
-
CMA fees
500
-
Other expenses
129
-
––––––
––––––
1,638
948
=====
=====
Amounts due to NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
	
2
-
=====
=====

146
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
          Company
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
31
Related Party Transactions (Continued)
f)  Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities (continued)
iii.	During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund 
(SGF) were as follows:-
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Income tax 
1,814
1,021
Trustee allowances 
400
457
Audit and tax fees
472
467
CMA fees
500
-
Other expenses
130
8
––––––
––––––
3,316
1,953
====
====
Amounts due from the NSE Derivatives SGF
4,401
2
====
====
iv.	During the period, transactions with NSE LLP were as follows:-
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Income tax 
1,000
-
Share of escrow fees
1,113
-
Other expenses
313
-
––––––
––––––
2,426
-
=====
====
Amounts due from the NSE LLP
8
-
=====
====
g)   Loans and advances to Executive Director 
At start of year
3,659
2,963
Advances made in the year
2,166
4,417
Loan made in the year
2,771
1,384
(5,441)
(5,105)
Repayments in the year
–––––––
–––––––
At end of year
3,155
3,659
=======
======
Interest income earned on loan
295
386
=======
======
The balances are included in note 21 (a) under Other receivables. The repayment period for the loans and advances 
are one year and three months respectively. Interest on the loans was at 9% p.a (2020 – 10% p.a). All terms are as 
per company policy.

147
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
32
Operating Lease Commitments (Group And Company)
The Group and Company as a lessor:
Lease rental income earned during the year was Kshs 9 million (2020: Kshs 10 million). At the end of the reporting period 
the Group and Company had existing contracts with tenants for the following minimum lease payments:
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Receivable within 1 year
9,909
10,182
Receivable after 1 year but within 5 years
25,926
32,310
Receivable after 5 years
-
3,525
–––––––
–––––––
35,835
46,017
======
======
Rental income receivable relates to the lease rent receivable on the leased areas on the investment property.
33
Capital Commitments - Group And Company
Commitments at the end of the reporting period for which no provision had been made in these financial statements:
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Authorised but not yet contracted for
47,529
76,632
======
======
The capital commitments relate mainly to system infrastructure and support.
34	 Risk Management Objectives And Policies
The main business risks faced by the Group and the Company in respect of its principal non-derivative 
financial instruments are market risk including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, credit risk and 
liquidity risk. The directors review and determine policies for managing these risks.
a)	Market risk
The Group and the Company maintains a conservative policy regarding currency and interest rate risks and 
does not engage in speculation in the markets.  In addition, the Group and the Company do not speculate 
or trade in derivative financial instruments.
i.	 Interest rate risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company’s investment in interest earning investments are both at amortised cost and 
fair value through profit or loss. These comprise of treasury bonds and bank deposits which are at fixed 
interest rates hence not exposed to interest rate risk.
The fixed deposits are short-term in nature and the fair value risk is considered minimal. Treasury bonds 
held at fair value through profit and loss carry a fair value risk as these are long term. 

148
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
a) Market risk (Continued)
i. Interest rate risk (Group and Company) (Continued)
The Group and Company’s investments are at fixed interest rates and are therefore not exposed to interest 
rate risk for both 2021 and 2020.
ii.	 Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company undertake certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, 
exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. Exchange rate exposures are however minimal as these 
only relate to income from data and interest income.
At 31 December, the carrying amounts of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities 
are as follows:
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
Assets
Cash and bank balances
247
2,283
Other receivables
19
313
Fixed deposit
13,837
11,799
–––––––
–––––––
14,103
14,395
Liabilities
Accrued expenses
(3,541)
(18,632)
–––––––
–––––––
Net position
10,562
(4,237)
======
======
At 31 December 2021, if the Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US Dollar with all 
other variables held constant, the impact on pretax profit for the period would have been Kshs 1,056,000 
(2020: Kshs 424,000) higher/lower mainly as a result of translation of US dollar denominated balances.
iii.	 Price risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company hold investments that would be subject to price risk.
At 31 December, the fair value of the investments that are subject to price risk are as follows:
2021
2020
 Kshs’000 
 Kshs’000 
Quoted equity instrument
75,333
48,720
=====
======
At 31 December 2021, if the price had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the market share price, 
the impact on other comprehensive income through revaluation reserve would have been Kshs 7,533,000 
(2020 – Kshs 4,872,000).

149
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
b)	Credit risk (Group and Company)
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in 
financial loss Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for 
the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. Credit risk mainly arises from financial assets, and is 
managed on a Group-wide basis.
Credit risk on financial assets with banking institutions is managed by dealing with institutions with good 
credit ratings and placing limits on deposits that can be held one institution. 
Credit risk on trade receivables is managed by ensuring that credit is extended to customers with an 
established credit history. The credit history is determined by taking into account the financial position, 
past experience and other relevant factors. Credit is managed by setting a credit limit and credit period 
for each customer. The utilization of the credit limits and the credit period is monitored by management 
on a monthly basis.
In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly, the Group compares 
the risk of default occurring on the financial asset as at the reporting date with the risk of default 
occurring on that financial asset as at the date of initial recognition. In doing so, the Group considers 
reasonable and supportable information that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk since initial 
recognition and that is available without undue cost or effort. There is a rebuttable assumption that 
the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition when contractual 
payments are more than 30 days past due.
For this purpose, default is defined as having occurred if the debtor is in breach of contractual obligations, 
or if information is available internally or externally that suggests that the debtor is unlikely to be able 
to meet its obligations. However, there is a rebuttable assumption that that default does not occur later 
than when a financial asset is 90 days past due.
The Group and Company do not hold collateral or security to mitigate credit risk.
The amount that best represents the Group and Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 
2021 and 2020 is made up as follows:

150
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (Continued)
i.	 The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet date was as 
follows:
12 – month 
expected 
credit losses
      Lifetime expected
         credit losses
          (a)                 (b)
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Group
At 31 December 2021
Government securities
375,627
-
-
375,627
Long-term restricted investments
145,948
-
-
145,948
Trade receivables
40,955
1,273
-
42,228
Other receivables
20,543
1,084
-
21,627
Short-term restricted cash and investments
238,652
-
-
238,652
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
422,116
-
-
422,166
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Gross carrying amount
1,243,841
2,357
-
1,246,198
Loss allowance
(12,420)
(2,357)
-
(14,777)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Exposure to credit risk
1,231,421
-
-
1,231,421
=======
=======
=======
=======

151
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
(b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued)
(i) The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet date was as 
follows: (Continued)
12 – month 
expected 
credit losses
      Lifetime expected
         credit losses
          (a)                 (b)
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Group
At 31 December 2020
Government securities
283,126
-
-
283,126
Long-term restricted investments
171,433
-
-
171,433
Trade receivables
29,312
5,053
-
34,365
Other receivables
20,135
4,254
-
24,389
Short-term restricted cash and investments
243,488
-
-
243,488
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
530,838
-
-
530,838
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Gross carrying amount
1,278,332
9,307
-
1,287,639
Loss allowance
(4,204)
(9,307)
-
(13,511)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Exposure to credit risk
1,274,128
-
-
1,274,128
=======
=======
=======
=======
Company
At 31 December 2021
Government securities
375,627
375,627
Trade receivables
40,955
1,273
42,228
Other receivables
16,475
1,084
17,559
Short-term restricted cash and investments
238,652
238,652
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
394,695
394,695
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Gross carrying amount
1,066,404
2,357
1,068,761
Loss allowance
(10,799)
(2,357)
(13,156)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Exposure to credit risk
1,055,605
-
1,055,605
=======
=======
=======
=======
At 31 December 2020
Government securities
283,126
-
-
283,126
Trade receivables
29,312
5,053
-
34,365
Other receivables
19,216
4,254
-
23,470
Short-term restricted cash and investments
243,488
-
-
243,488
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
529,117
-
-
529,117
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Gross carrying amount
1,104,259
9,307
-
1,113,566
Loss allowance
(3,709)
(9,307)
-
(13,016)
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Exposure to credit risk
1,100,550
-
-
1,100,550
=======
=======
=======
=======

152
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
(b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued)
i) The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet date was as follows 
(continued)
Financial assets for which the loss allowance has been measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected 
credit losses have been analysed above based on their credit risk ratings as follows:
	
■financial assets for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but that are 
not credit impaired
	
■financial assets that are credit impaired at the balance sheet date
The above represents the worst-case scenario of credit exposure for both years.
ii.	The loss allowances at end of each year relate to the following
12-month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
credit losses
           (a)                     (b)
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Group
At 31 December 2021
Government securities
6,385
-
-
6,385
Long-term restricted investments
1,583
-
-
1,583
Trade receivables
155
1,273
-
1,428
Other receivables
330
1,084
-
1,414
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
3,933
-
-
3.933
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total
12,386
2,357
-
14,743
=======
=======
=======
=======
At 31 December 2020
Government securities
1,982
-
-
1,982
Long-term restricted investments
495
-
-
495
Trade receivables
28
5,053
-
5,081
Other receivables
78
4,254
-
4,332
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
1,621
-
-
1,621
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total
4,204
9,307
-
13,511
=======
=======
=======
=======

153
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
(b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued)
iii.	  The loss allowances at end of each year relate to the following
12-month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
credit losses
           (a)                     (b)
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Company
At 31 December 2021
Government securities
6,385
-
-
6,385
Trade receivables
155
1,273
-
1,428
Other receivables
330
1,084
-
1,414
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
3,928
-
-
3,928
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total
10,798
2,357
-
13,155
=======
=======
=======
=======
At 31 December 2020
Government securities
1,982
-
-
1,982
Trade receivables
28
5,053
-
5,081
Other receivables
78
4,254
-
4,332
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
1,621
-
-
1,621
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
Total
3,709
9,307
-
13,016
=======
=======
=======
=======
iv.	 The changes in the loss allowance during the year were as follows 
12-month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
     credit losses
         (a)                    (b)
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Group
Year ended 31 December 2021
At start of year
4,204
9,307
13,511
Additions in the year
8,182
(6,950)
1,232
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
At end of year
12,386
2,357
-
14,743
=======
=======
=======
=======
Year ended 31 December 2020
At start of year
6,050
3,495
-
9,545
Additions in the year
(1,846)
5,812
-
3,966
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
At end of year
4,204
9,307
-
13,511
=======
=======
=======
=======

154
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
(b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued)
iv) The changes in the loss allowance during the year were as follows (continued)
12-month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
     credit losses           
Total
  (a) 
  (b)
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Company
Year ended 31 December 2021
At start of year
3,709
9,307
13,016
Additions in the year
7,089
(6,950)
139
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
At end of year
10,798
2,357
-
13,155
=======
=======
=======
=======
Year ended 31 December 2020
At start of year
5,478
3,495
-
8,973
Additions in the year
(1,769)
5,812
-
4,043
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
––––––––
At end of year
3,709
9,307
-
13,016
=======
=======
=======
=======
e)	 Liquidity risk - Group and Company
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash to meet the Group and 
Company’s obligations.  The Group and Company manage this risk by maintaining adequate cash 
balances in the bank, banking facilities and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash 
flows. 
The table below analyses the Group and Company’s financial liabilities that will be settled on a 
net basis into relevant maturity grouping’s based on the remaining period at the reporting period 
to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the 
impact of discounting is not significant.
Up to 1 year
1 – 5 years
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Group
At 31 December 2021
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
12
2,215
2,227
Trade and other payables
44,478
-
44,478
Dividends payable
67,070
-
67,070
Trading members’ contributions
2,400
-
2,400
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
-
11,750
11,750
–––––––
–––––––
–––––––
Total financial liabilities
113,960
13,965
127,925
=======
=======
=======

155
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
e) Liquidity risk - Group and Company (Continued)
Up to 1 year
1 – 5 years
Total
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Group
At 31 December 2020
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
3,233
3,233
Trade and other payables
50,194
-
50,194
Dividends payable
32,066
-
32,066
Trading members’ contributions
2,200
-
2,200
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
-
35,250
35,250
––––––––
––––––––
–––––––
Total financial liabilities
84,460
38,483
122,943
=======
=======
======
Company
At 31 December 2021
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
12
2,215
2,227
Trade and other payables
38,274
-
38,274
Dividends payable
66,444
-
66,444
––––––––
––––––––
–––––––
Total financial liabilities
104,729
2,215
106,945
=======
=======
======
At 31 December 2020
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
3,233
-
3,233
Trade and other payables
46,621
-
46,621
Dividends payable
31,440
-
31,440
––––––––
––––––––
–––––––
Total financial liabilities
81,294
-
81,294
=======
=======
======
f)	 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
IFRS 7 specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether inputs used in the valuation techniques 
of financial instruments are observable or unobservable. Financial instruments are grouped into 3 levels 
based on the degree to which fair value data / input is observable.
i.	 Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active trading 
markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
ii.	 Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as a price) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Input data for 
this category is sourced mainly from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The external valuation of buildings 
and investment property has been performed using a sales comparison approach.
iii.	 Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs that are 
not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 

156
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
f) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (Continued) 
The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are carried at fair value by 
level of the fair value hierarchy. 
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Group and Company
Level 1
Financial assets
Quoted equity instrument
75,333
48,720
=======
=======
Level 2
Financial assets
Government securities
365,598
281,144
=======
=======
There were no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 in the period and for level 3, there was no movement.
i.	 Level 1 – We have determined the fair value using quoted prices (unadjusted) from the Dar Es Salaam Stock 
Exchange.
ii.	 Level 2 – We have determined the fair value using the implied yield curve for the bond published by the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange.
The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried at fair value 
by level of the fair value hierarchy. 
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Group
Level 1
Financial assets
Government securities 
-
-
=======
=======
Level 2
Financial assets
Long-term restricted investments
144,334
170,938
Short-term restricted cash and investments
238,652
243,488
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
418,183
529,217
––––––––
––––––––
801,169
943,643
=======
=======
The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried at fair value 
by level of the fair value hierarchy. 

157
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
34 Risk Management Objectives And Policies (Continued)
f) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (Continued)
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Company
Level 1
Financial assets
Government securities 
-
-
=======
=======
Level 2
Financial assets
Short-term restricted cash and investments
238,652
243,488
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
390,767
527,496
––––––––
––––––––
629,419
770,984
=======
=======
There were no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 in the period and for level 3, there was no movement.
i.	 Level 1 – We have determined the fair value using quoted prices (unadjusted) from the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange.
ii.	 Level 2 – The fair value of these balances is equal to their amortised cost.
35	 Capital Management
The Group and Company manage its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern 
while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
At 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020, the Group and Company did not have any borrowings.
	
36	 Minimum Liquid Net-Worth Requirements (Company)
2021
2020
Kshs’000
Kshs’000
Estimated twelve months operating costs
	
 477,304
	
486,976
=======
=======
Required minimum liquid net-worth at one half of estimated operating 
costs
238,652
243,488
======
=======
Cash and cash equivalents and fixed deposits  
    390,767
            	
527,496
=======
======
To ensure that there is no significant risk that liabilities may not be met as they fall due, the Capital Markets 
(Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 requires a futures exchange to maintain minimum liquid net-worth 
requirements equal to one half of the estimated gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next 
twelve (12) month period or such other liquid net-worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. This 
has been met based on the above.

158
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2021
Notes To The Financial Statements (Continued)
37	 Contingent Liability
a.)	 This is a suit against the NSE that was filed in July 2020 by 7 of the former employees of the NSE who were 
declared redundant following the restructuring process. The Claimants allege wrongful termination of their 
employment contracts. The suit is for Kshs 40,256,024 plus general damages to be assessed by the Court.  
The matter is still pending in Court and has not been provided for in this financial statements.
b.)	 This is a suit filed in 2010 by Mercy Nyambura Kanyara & Another against Nyaga Stockbrokers (Under 
Statutory Management), NSE and other Defendants on assertions that they were in breach of contractual, 
fiduciary and statutory duties owed to the Plaintiff. The claim is for Kshs 95,199,711 in respect of accrued 
shares and dividends and the costs of the suit. A ruling was delivered on 5th October 2017 striking out the suit 
and the Plaintiff filed an appeal against the ruling.

NOTICE OF THE 68TH ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING
NOTICE is hereby given that the 68th Annual General Meeting of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc will be 
held by electronic communication, on Friday 3rd June 2022 at 11.00 a.m. to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	To read the notice convening the meeting, table the proxies received and confirm the presence of a quorum.
2.	To confirm and adopt the Minutes of the Annual General Meeting held on 3rd June 2021.
3.	To receive the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Report.
4.	To receive, consider and, if thought fit, adopt the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31st 
December 2021 together with the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
5.	To approve a second special dividend of Kshs. 0.50 per share resulting in a total special dividend of Kshs. 
1.00 per share (inclusive of the Kshs. 0.50 paid in December 2021) and a final dividend of Kshs. 0.40 per 
ordinary share, in respect of the Financial Year ended 31st December 2021 and to approve the closure of the 
Register of Members at the close of business on 3rd June 2022 for one day for the purpose of determining 
the qualifying members entitled to dividends. 
6.	To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board as detailed in the Annual Report for the Financial Year 
ended 31st December 2021 and to authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration. 
7.	Election of Directors:
a)	 In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Kiprono Kittony 
(an Independent Non-Executive Director) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-
election; 
b)	 In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Paul Vollant (a 
Non-Executive Director) retires by rotation, and, although being eligible, does not offer himself for re-
election; and
c)	 In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Ms. Isis Nyon’go-
Madison (an Independent Non-Executive Director) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers herself 
for re-election.
8.	In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015, the following directors, 
being members of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, be appointed individually to continue 
to serve as members of the said Committee:
a)	 Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto;
b)	 Ms. Isis Nyong’o Madison (subject to re-election);
c)	 Mr. Michael Turner; and
d)	 Mr. Paul Mwai.

NOTICE OF THE 68TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  CONTINUED
9.	To reappoint Messrs Deloitte & Touche as the Auditors of the Company, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 721(4) of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration for 
the ensuing Financial Year in accordance with the provisions of Section 724 of the Companies Act, 2015.
SPECIAL BUSINESS 
10.	Special Resolution on amendment of the Articles of Association of the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Plc
To consider and, and if appropriate, pass the following Special Resolution:
“Subject to obtaining regulatory approvals for the creation of a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
NSE Group Plc to carry on the exchange business (“Reorganization”), THAT the existing Articles 
of Association of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc be amended by incorporating the changes 
highlighted in the annexure  attached to this resolution, with effect from the date of completion of 
the Reorganization.”
ANY OTHER BUSINESS
11.	To consider any other business of which due notice has been received.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
KURIA K. WAITHAKA
COMPANY SECRETARY & CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER
DATE: 12th May 2022
Notes:
1.	Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc has convened and will conduct a Virtual Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) 
pursuant to Section 283 of the Companies Act and Article 79 of the Company’s Articles of Association.

NOTICE OF THE 68TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  CONTINUED
2.	The Company, pursuant to Section 283(3) of the Companies Act has made available the following documents 
on the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke for Shareholder access:
a)	 A copy of this Notice and the proxy form;
b)	 The Company’s Financial Statements and reports for the year 2021; 
c)	 Amended Articles of Association;
d)	 Nomination Form; and
e)	 Consent Form.
3.	Shareholders wishing to participate in the meeting should register for the AGM by dialing *483*560# on 
their mobile telephone and follow the various prompts on the registration process or click on the following 
link https://escrowagm.com/nse/signup.aspx and filling in the registration form. In order to complete the 
registration process, the shareholder will need to have their ID/Passport Numbers that were used to 
purchase their shares and/or their CDSC Account Number at hand.
4.	To complete the registration process, shareholders will need to provide their National ID/Passport Numbers 
which were used to purchase their shares and/or their CDSC Account Number. For assistance, shareholders 
should dial the following helpline number: (+254) 0710888000 from 8.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. (EAT) from 
Monday to Friday. 
A Shareholder domiciled outside of Kenya can send an email to CDSC Registrars via  eagm@
cdscregistrars.com providing their details i.e. Name, Passport/ID Number, CDS Number and Mobile 
telephone number requesting to be registered. CDSC Registrars shall register the shareholder and 
send them an email notification once registered.
5.	Registration for the AGM opens on Monday 16th May 2022 at 8.00 a.m. (EAT) and will close on Wednesday 
1st June 2022 at 5.00 p.m. (EAT). Shareholders will not be able to register after this time.
6.	Shareholders wishing to raise any questions or clarifications regarding the AGM may do so by:
a)	 Sending their written questions by email to the Company’s email address info@nse.co.ke or CDSC 
Registrars email address eagm@cdscregistrars.com;
b)	 To the extent possible, physically delivering the written questions with a return physical address or email 
address to the Registered Office of the Company at The Exchange Building, 5th Floor, 55 Westlands Road, 
Nairobi or to CDSC Registrars Limited, 1st Floor, Occidental Plaza, Muthithi Road, Westlands;  or
c)	 Sending their written questions with a return physical address or email address by registered post to the 
Company’s address at P.O. Box 43633 - 00100, Nairobi, or to CDSC Registrars address - P.O. Box 6341-
00100, Nairobi.
Shareholders must provide their full details (full name, ID/Passport Number/CDSC Account Number) 
when submitting their questions and clarifications.
All questions and clarifications must reach the Company on or before Tuesday 31st May 2022 at 
5.00 p.m. (EAT).

NOTICE OF THE 68TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  CONTINUED
Following receipt of the questions and clarifications, the directors of the Company shall provide 
written responses to the questions received to the return physical address or e-mail address provided 
by the Shareholder no later than twelve (12) hours before the start of the general meeting. A full list 
of all questions received and the answers thereto will be published on the Company’s website no later 
than twelve (12) hours before the start of the AGM.
7.	In accordance with Section 298(1) of the Companies Act, shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the 
AGM are entitled to appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the Company 
but if not the Chairman of the AGM, the appointed proxy will need access to a mobile telephone. A Proxy 
Form is available on the Company’s website via this link: www.nse.co.ke. Physical copies of the Proxy Form 
are also available at the following address: CDSC Registrars, 1st Floor, Occidental Plaza, Muthithi Road, 
Westlands. To be valid, a Proxy Form must be duly completed by the member and must be returned to CDSC 
Registrars on the above address or through their email address eagm@cdscregistrars.com so as to arrive 
not later than forty eight (48) hours before the time fixed for the meeting, failing which, it will be invalid. In 
the case of a corporate body, the Proxy Form must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of 
duly authorised officer or an attorney of such corporation. Any person appointed as a proxy should submit 
his/her mobile telephone number to the Company no later than forty eight (48) hours before the time fixed 
for the meeting. Any proxy registration that is rejected will be communicated to the shareholder concerned 
no later than twenty four (24) hours after receipt to allow time to address any issues.
8.	In accordance with the provisions of Article 96 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a person 
seeking election as a Director at the Annual General Meeting should deliver to the Company Secretary, 
through the Company’s physical, postal or email address info@nse.co.ke (copy to kwaithaka@nse.co.ke), 
by 26th May 2022 at 1.00 pm, notice in writing signed by a Shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at 
the meeting, of his intention to propose such person for election and notice in writing signed by the person 
to be proposed of his willingness to be elected as per the nomination papers which may be accessed on 
the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke. The person so nominated will be required to send a Consent in the 
format also available on the Company’s website.
9.	The AGM will be streamed live via a link which shall be provided to all shareholders who will have registered 
to participate in the general meeting. Duly registered shareholders and proxies will receive a short message 
service (SMS/USSD) prompt on their registered mobile numbers, twenty four (24) hours prior to the AGM 
acting as a reminder of the AGM. A second SMS/USSD prompt shall be sent one hour ahead of the AGM, 
reminding duly registered shareholders and proxies that the AGM will begin in an hours’ time and providing 
a link to the live stream.
10.	Duly registered shareholders and proxies may follow the proceedings of the AGM using the live stream 
platform and may access the agenda. Duly registered shareholders and proxies may vote (when prompted 
by the Chairman) via the USSD prompts.

NOTICE OF THE 68TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  CONTINUED
11.	For shareholders residing outside Kenya and wishing to participate in the AGM, the following procedure 
shall apply:
a)	 The Shareholder domiciled outside of Kenya will send an e-mail to CDSC Registrars ​
eagm@cdscregistrars.com providing their details i.e. Name, Passport/ID Number, and Mobile telephone 
number requesting to be registered.
b)	 CDSC Registrars shall register the shareholder and send them an email notification once registered.
c)	 A notification (email and SMS) shall be sent to them as well as all shareholders an hour before the AGM 
notifying them about the AGM. This notification will also include the link to stream the proceedings.
d)	 For voting, the shareholder will receive a verification Code via the Mobile telephone number provided.
e)	 The link shared to stream the meeting contains a voting tab. Once the shareholder selects to vote, he/
she shall key in the code received via SMS and proceed to follow the prompts.
f)	 A shareholder may also ask questions via the Questions Tab.
12.	Results of the AGM shall be published within twenty four (24) hours following conclusion of the AGM.
13.	Shareholders are encouraged to continually monitor the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke for updates 
relating to the AGM.

PROXY FORM
I/We,……….................…......................…….,………. of…	
………………………………….., 
being 
a 
shareholder/shareholders of the above-named Company, hereby appoint……………………………….., 
of………………………………., or failing him…………...…….……....……... of…	
………….. as my/our 
proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company 
to be held on 3rd June 2022 and at any adjournment thereof.
As witness my/our hand this………… day of …………….………….2022
SIGNED............................................…………………………………………..
SIGNED............................................…………………………………………..
This Form is to be used in for or against any resolutions here below. Please mark as appropriate. Unless 
otherwise instructed, the proxy shall vote as he thinks fit.
Agenda 
Item
Resolution
  FOR
Against
ORDINARY BUSINESS
4.
To adopt the audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 31st 
December 2021.
5.
To approve a second special dividend of Kshs. 0.50 per share resulting in a total 
special dividend of Kshs. 1.00 per share (inclusive of the Kshs.0.50 paid in December 
2021) and a final dividend of Kshs. 0.40 per ordinary share, in respect of the 
Financial Year ended 31st December 2021 and to approve the closure of the Register 
of Members at the close of business on 3rd June 2022 for one day for the purpose of 
determining the qualifying members entitled to dividends.
6.
To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board in respect of the Financial Year 
ended 31st December 2021 and to authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration.
7 (a)
To re-elect Mr. Kiprono Kittony (an Independent Non-Executive Director) in 
accordance with Articles 94 and 95.
7 (c)
To re-elect Ms. Isis Nyong’o Madison (an Independent Non-Executive Director) in 
accordance with Articles 94 and 95.
7 (d)
To elect Mr. John Niepold, as an Independent Non-Executive Director,  in accordance 
with Article 93 of the Company’s Articles of Association
8 (a)
To appoint Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto to continue serving as a member of the Board 
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
8 (b)
To appoint Ms. Isis Nyong’o Madison to continue serving as a member of the Board 
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
8 (c)
To appoint Mr. Michael Turner to continue serving as a member of the Board Audit, 
Risk and Compliance Committee.
8 (d)
To appoint Mr. Paul Mwai to continue serving as a member of the Board Audit, Risk 
and Compliance Committee.
9.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as the auditors for the Company for the Financial 
Year ending 31st December 2022 and to authorize the Directors to fix their 
remuneration.

Agenda 
Item
Resolution
  FOR
Against
SPECIAL BUSINESS
10.
SPECIAL RESOLUTION ON AMENDMENT OF THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF THE 
NSE 
To consider and, and if appropriate, pass the following Special Resolution:
“Subject to obtaining regulatory approvals for the creation of a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the NSE Group Plc to carry on the exchange business 
(“Reorganization”), THAT the existing Articles of Association of the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange Plc be amended by incorporating the changes highlighted in the 
annexure attached to this resolution, with effect from the date of completion of the 
Reorganization.”
PROXY FORM  CONTINUED

ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CONSENT 
FORM
Please complete in BLOCK CAPITALS
Fullname of Proxy(ies):
_____________________________________________________________________________
    
          ______________________________________________________________________________
             
          ______________________________________________________________________________
Address:    _________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
 
Mobile Number   
  Date: ____________________________________________________
Signature: _________________________________________________
Please tick ONE of the boxes below and return to: CDSC Registrars, 1st Floor, Occidental 
Plaza, Muthithi Road, Westlands
Approval of Registration
I/We approve to register to participate in the virtual AGM to be held on 3rd June 2022.
Consent for use of the Mobile Number provided

I/We would give my/our consent for the use of the mobile number provided for purposes 
of voting at the virtual AGM.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CONSENT FORM CONTINUED
Notes:
1.	If a member is unable to attend personally, this Proxy Form should be completed and returned (together 
with a power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is assigned or a notarized certified copy 
of such power or authority) to CDSC Registrars, 1st Floor, Occidental Plaza, Muthithi Road, Westlands, or 
through their email address eagm@cdscregistrars.com to arrive not later than 11.00 a.m. (EAT) on 1st 
June 2022 i.e. 48 hours before the meeting or any adjournment thereof. 
2.	In case of a member being a corporate body, the Proxy Form must be signed under the hand of an officer 
or duly authorized attorney of such corporate body.
3.	As a shareholder you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of your shareholder 
rights to attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at the meeting. A proxy need not to be a shareholder 
of the Company.

NOMINATION FORM FOR INDEPENDENT NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
I/ We ……..…………………………………………………of  P.O. Box	 being a shareholder/shareholders of the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 3rd  June  2022, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to propose ……………………………….
…………………….......................................................... of  P.O. Box	
 for election as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ………….. day of…………………………………	2022.
SIGNED BY	
	
	
NAME…………………………………...................................................
SIGNATURE(S) ………………………………...................................................	
    	
PLEASE NOTE:
4.	 The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC define an “Independent Non-Executive 
Director” as a Non-Executive Director who, for the last 5 years, has not been employed by the Company 
in an executive capacity; has not been a director of a Trading Participant; has not been employed by a 
Trading Participant in an executive capacity; has no personal service contract(s) with a Trading Participant; is 
not a director or a member of the senior management of a company listed on the Company’s securities 
exchange; and does not own or hold shares in a Trading Participant.
5.	 To 
be 
valid, 
this 
Nomination 
Form 
must 
be 
received 
by 
the 
Company 
Secretary;
 E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke by 1.00 p.m. on Thursday, 26th May 2022.
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke

CONSENT FORM FOR INDEPENDENT NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
I ……………………...……………………….....………. of P. O. Box ……………………..……………. 
being the person in respect of whom ………………………………………….…………………. of P.O. Box 
……………………………………………… has given notice of intention to propose me  as a candidate to 
be elected as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC at the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 3rd June 2022, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this ………….. day of…………………………………2022.
..................................................................SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows:
6.	 “No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director 
at any General Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the 
day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice 
in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice 
has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the 
person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
7.	 To 
be 
valid, 
this 
Consent 
Form 
must 
be 
received 
by 
the 
Company 
Secretary; 
E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke by 1.00 p.m. on Thursday, 26th May 2022.
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke





www.nse.co.ke
Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC  
The Exchange, 55 Westlands Road  
P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, Kenya
Tel: +254 20 2831000 
Mobile: +254 724 253783 
  
  +254 733 222007 
Email:  info@nse.co.ke  
Website:  www.nse.co.ke

