NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
1
Looking Forward
2022
Integrated 
Report & 
Financial 
Statements

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
2
The leading Securities Exchange in 
East and Central Africa connecting 
capital to opportunities in the 
region through provision of a world 
class trading facility for local and 
international issuers and investors.
 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
3
Growing the
Region’s Financial 
Services Hub
www.nse.co.ke
We provide an all-inclusive trading platform 
anchored on best-in-class trading 
technology,wide array of investment products 
and data dissemination capabilities.    

Contents
Our Company
About this Report
 
 
 
1
Corporate Information 
 
 
 
 
3
About NSE 
 
 
 
 
4 - 5
NSE Structure   
 
 
 
6
NSE History 
 
 
 
 
8 - 9
Chairman’s Statement 
11 - 14
Chief Executive’s Statement 
16 - 19
Board of Directors  
 
 
 
23 - 25
Directors’ Report  
 
 
 
21 - 22
Executive Committee Members  
 
26
 
 
 
 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework  
31 - 32
Value Creation Process  
 
 
33 - 34
Strategy 
 
 
 
 
35 - 37
Business Review
NSE Sustainability Report 
 
 
45- 48
Material Issues  
 
 
 
39- 43
Corporate Governance Statement 
 
49 - 57
Corporate Governance Statement
28 - 30
 
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
 
62 - 67
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
  
68
Independent Auditor’s Report 
69 - 72
 
Comprehensive Income  
 
 
73 - 74
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  75 - 76
Company Statement of Financial Position 
77 - 78
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  79
Company Statement of Changes in Equity         80
Statement of Cash Flows  
 
 
81- 82
Notes to the Financial Statements  
 
83 -146
Notice of the Annual General Meeting  
Proxy Form
Nomination & Consent Form
Financial Performance
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
1
This integrated report has 
been prepared in accord-
ance with the Internation-
al Integrated Reporting 
Framework. The NSE 
Board of Directors have 
applied the fundamental 
concepts and principles 
recommended in the 
framework in the 
preparation of this report. 
As a listed company, we 
have prepared this report 
in line with the guidelines 
of the Kenya Companies 
Act 2015 and specifica-
tions issued by the Capital 
Markets Authority (CMA). 
The Group Financial 
Statements were prepared 
in accordance with 
International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The Group’s Financial 
Statements were audited 
by Deloitte and Touche 
LLP
About this Report
The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) Plc is pleased to present its Integrated Report and financial statements 
for the period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022. The report is aimed at providing adequate information 
to our stakeholders, giving a comprehensive overview of how the NSE created value to all its stakeholders in 
the period under review. It reports on how the NSE leveraged on its various forms of capitals to create and 
enhance value. 
The report will offer our stakeholders a deeper understanding of our operations, achievements, opportunities 
as well as challenges we faced during the period under review as we seek to become Africa’s leading trading 
and investment platform.
This report is an 
acknowledgement of the 
critical importance the Group 
has placed in enhancing its 
communication with 
stakeholders through linking 
financial and non-financial 
standards in measuring our 
performance. This report will 
therefore provide insights 
into the financial, 
operational, strategic, social 
and governance performance 
as well as outcomes and its 
implications to the Group in 
the year under review.
The scope of this report 
relates to the NSE, an 
investment services 
company as well as 
material issues arising 
from its business 
performance and other 
related investments. Any 
reference made to the 
Group will represent the 
NSE, its subsidiaries and 
associate investments. 
The report will however 
capture any material 
issues arising from any 
related transactions 
regarding the Group 
before the publication of 
this report.
PURPOSE OF THE REPORT
SCOPE OF THE REPORT
PREPARATON & PRESENTATION 
ASSURANCE 

2
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
Opportunities 
Creating
Investment
We offer Investors access to Kenya’s and East 
Africa’s economic growth through exposure 
to leading companies across various sectors 
of the economy. 
www.nse.co.ke
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
2

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
2022
3
	Corporate Information
DIRECTORS	
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS	
Chairman
Mr. Paul Mwai	
Vice Chairman
Mr. John Niepold     
Mr. Michael Turner
Mr. Donald Wangunyu  	
Mr. Stephen Chege 	
	
Ms. Risper Alaro                                         
Ms. Isis Madison 
Ms. Carol Kariuki                        	
    
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo 	
Chief Executive
SECRETARY	
	
	
Mr. Kuria Waithaka
P.O. Box 43633 - 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
REGISTERED OFFICE	
L.R. No 209/18851
The Exchange, 55 Westlands Road 
P.O. Box 43633 - 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
AUDITOR
	
	
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Deloitte Place
Off Waiyaki Way
P.O. Box 40092 - 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
BANKERS	
	
KCB Bank Limited 	
	
Moi Avenue Branch   	
	
P.O. Box 30081 – 00100
Nairobi, Kenya	
 	
Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited
Chiromo Branch		
	
P.O Box 3003 - 00100
Nairobi, Kenya   	
	
	
	
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
Westlands Branch	
P.O. Box 48231 – 00100	
	
	
Nairobi, Kenya 	 	
	
LEGAL ADVISERS	
	
	
Hamilton Harrison & Mathews	
Delta Office Suites, 1st floor
Block A, Off Waiyaki Way
P.O. Box 30333 - 00100 GPO
Nairobi, Kenya
Mboya Wangong’u & Waiyaki Advocates
Lex Chambers
Maji Mazuri Road, Off James Gichuru Road, Lavington
P.O. Box 74041 – 00200
Nairobi, Kenya
Walker Kontos Advocates
Hakika House
Bishops Road
P.O. Box 60680 – 00200
Nairobi, Kenya
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
3

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
4
Linking capital to 
opportunity to enhance 
stakeholder value
Who we are
We are a leading African Securities Exchange based in 
Kenya, providing an avenue for capital raising anchored 
on a multi-asset class trading platform. We offer a broad 
range of products comprising of equities, bonds, Exchange 
Traded Funds (ETFs), Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), 
Derivatives, data and training services geared towards 
addressing investors’ needs. 
In addition, we also provide a platform for the trading and 
settlement of securities of unquoted companies called the 
Unquoted Securities Platform (USP). We equally support 
the growth and development of medium enterprises 
through the Ibuka program. 
Our diverse blend of domestic and international investors 
enable companies and the Government to mobilize 
domestic resources and international capital to support 
economic growth in Kenya.
Our Purpose
The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is the principal 
bourse in Kenya, offering an automated platform for the 
listing and trading of multiple securities.
NSE has consistently offered a well-regulated, robust and 
world class platform for the trading of equities, bonds and 
derivatives. We offer data and analytics solutions to a 
wide array of investment clients both locally and 
internationally. NSE is the market of choice for local and 
international investors looking to gain exposure to the 
East African economies.
To be the leading 
exchange and the 
investment partner 
of choice through 
providing efficient 
investment and 
capital raising 
services in Africa 
and globally
Integrity
Excellence 
Teamwork 
Sustainability 
Accountability
Mission
Values
Vision

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
5
Investors
 
We serve a wide array of retail and Institutional investors 
both local and foreign with discretionary mandate to invest 
in frontier equities markets and Derivatives Products. 
Institutional investors make up to 65% of our investors.
Issuers
We offer a capital raising platform for 
issuers looking to raise debt or equity 
capital.
Data Clients 
The NSE offers data products to a wide variety of domestic and 
international clients including; Data Vendors, Investment Advisors, 
Fund Managers, Trading System Developers as Index computing 
companies.
Training Clients
We offer both basic and specialized training services to a wide variety of market 
players and the general public. Our training services builds the capacity of market 
players in an ever changing environment, ensuring their ability to trade with even 
the most complex of instruments while keeping up with global trends.
Government
We provide an avenue for the Government 
to list sovereign paper for secondary 
trading.
Who We Serve

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
6
*The Board of Directors of NSE Clear 
Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and 
IPF who manage and administer the funds   
Shareholders
Nairobi Securities 
Exchange PLC
88.8% 
AKS Nominees
Limited
NSE Clear Limited
100% 
Central Depository &
Settlement Corporation
Limited (CDSC)
22.5%
18%
NSE Investor
Protection
Fund (IPF)
100% 
NSE LLP
NSE Settlement
Guarantee Fund
(SGF)
NSE Structure
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
6

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
7
NSE Data
Services
Access live or intra-day data on 
Equities,Fixed income and Equity 
Derivatives (single-stock futures (SSFs) and 
Index Futures) markets as well as market 
statistics data generated by the NSE
www.nse.co.ke

Our History
 
Dealing in shares commenced 
with trading taking place on a 
gentleman’s agreement. London 
Stock Exchange (LSE) officials 
accepted to recognize the 
setting up of the Nairobi Stock 
Exchange (NSE) as an overseas 
stock exchange in 1953.
The NSE implemented live trading 
on its own Automated Trading 
System (ATS) trading equities. The 
ATS also had the capability of 
trading immobilized corporate 
bonds and treasury bonds.
The NSE marked the first day of 
automated trading in government 
bonds through the ATS and 
uploaded all government bonds on 
the System.
The Nairobi Stock Exchange Limited 
changed its name to the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange Limited. The 
change of name was a reflection of 
the 2010 – 2014 strategic plan of 
the NSE to evolve into a full service 
securities exchange, which supports 
trading, clearing and settlement of 
equities, debt, derivatives and other 
associated instruments.
The NSE received formal approval 
from the Capital Markets 
Authority (CMA) to operate as a 
demutualized entity. The NSE also 
received formal approval from 
the CMA to offer its shares to the 
public through an Initial Public 
offer (IPO) and to self list it shares
The NSE was registered as a private 
company limited by shares. Share 
trading moved from being conducted 
over a cup of tea (at the Exchange Bar 
at the Stanley Hotel), to the floor 
based open outcry system.
The NSE launched the NSE 
Investment Challenge to promote 
financial literacy and stock market 
investments amongst Kenyan 
youth.
The Nairobi Stock Exchange 
Limited changed its name to the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Limited. The change of name was a 
reflection of the 2010 – 2014 
strategic plan of the NSE to evolve 
into a full service securities 
exchange, which supports trading, 
clearing and settlement of equities, 
debt, derivatives and other 
associated instruments.
 The NSE listed its 194,625,000 
issued and fully paid up shares on 
the Main Investment Market 
Segment under a new sector - 
Investment Services of the Bourse 
after a successful IPO. Following 
its self-listing, the Exchange 
became the second African 
Exchange after the Johannesburg 
Stock Exchange, to be listed, 
supports trading, clearing and 
settlement of equities, debt, 
derivatives and other associated 
instruments.
 The NSE became the fourth 
African Bourse to launch Real 
Estate Investments Trusts (REITs) 
market and consequently listed 
the first REIT, the Stanlib Fahari 
I-REIT.
1920 - 1953
1921 
2006
2008
2009
2011
2013
2014 
2014
2015
APRIL
JULY
JUNE
OCTOBER
JANUARY
SEPTEMBER
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
8

 
 The NSE received formal 
recognition as a 
Self-Regulatory Organization 
(SRO) by the Capital Markets 
Authority (CMA).
The NSE became the first 
Exchange in East and Central 
Africa to be admitted as a full 
member of the World Federation 
of Exchanges (WFE).
The NSE launched revised listing 
rules incorporating listing 
requirements for Green Bonds 
enabling the NSE offer a new 
asset class to issuers and 
investors.
 The NSE launched NEXT 
Derivatives Market, becoming 
the second Exchange in Africa to 
offer Exchange traded 
derivatives. The launch enabled 
the NSE commence the trading 
of Single Stock and Index 
Futures.
The NSE launched a new trading 
system provided by millennium 
technologies, who are part of the 
London Stock Exchange group.
The NSE became the first Exchange in 
the East African region to introduce 
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and 
subsequently listed the Barclays New 
Gold ETF.
The NSE launched its incubation 
and acceleration program dubbed 
Ibuka (meaning ‘emerge’ in 
Swahili) to offer companies the 
opportunity to grow their 
businesses and develop scalable 
and impactful business models.
The East African Securities 
Exchanges Association (EASEA) in 
partnership with the Rwanda Stock 
Exchange hosted the inaugural 
within East Africa Capital Markets 
Day in Kigali, Rwanda.
Launched a dynamic and 
user-friendly mobile app, to 
enhance investors’ participation 
in Kenya’s capital market
Launched its unquoted 
Securities Platform
2016
2017
2018
2018
2019
2019
2019
2019
2020
2021
DECEMBER
JUNE
MAY
OCTOBER
MAY
JULY
JUNE
JULY
JANUARY
FEBRUARY
2021
AUGUST
Safaricom and Nairobi securities Exchange 
announced their partnership to enable 
customers invest in stocks by redeeming 
their accrued Bonga points. Customers 
redeem their points at a rate of KES 1 for 
every 5 points.
2021
DECEMBER
NSE launched Day Trading as part 
of its strategy to enhance market 
liquidity
2021
NOVEMBER
NSE launched ESG Disclosures 
Guidance Manual.
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
9

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
10
in Regional Economies
Creating
Investment
Opportunities
We offer Investors access to Kenya’s and 
East Africa’s economic growth through 
exposure to leading companies across 
various sectors of the economy. 
www.nse.co.ke

Chairman’s 
Statement
Overview
It gives me great pleasure to present to you the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange PLC (NSE) Integrated Report and Financial Statements 
for the period ended 31 December  2022. The year 2022 proved 
significantly challenging for economies both regionally and 
internationally.
The operating environment was drastically affected by domestic and 
international macro-economic developments that greatly impacted 
the Group’s performance over the review period.
Despite the challenging environment, the Board remained 
committed to supporting the company make key strides towards the 
achievement of its strategic priorities as set out in its revised 2020-
2024 strategy.
The achievement of key strategic priorities will enable us to solidify 
our mandate of offering a world-class market infrastructure that 
enables companies access and raise financing whilst providing 
investors an avenue to deploy capital and gain exposure to the 
country’s economic growth. 
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS  
Board Chairman
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
11

Operating Environment and Its Impact on 
Performance
During the year under review, the global economy experienced broad-
based slowdown evidenced by the sharp reduction in economic activity 
from 6.1% to 3.2% in the year 2021 and 2022 respectively according 
to the International Monetary Fund. 
The invasion of Russia into Ukraine and the ensuing war highly impacted 
economic growth globally leading to increased inflation, tightening 
financial conditions across the globe and slow demand for export 
products. Similarly, the expansive impacts of the COVID-19 continued 
to impact on growth. 
Domestically, the protracted drought that characterised the better part 
of the year and political uncertainty heightened by Kenya’s general 
elections held on August 2022 further impacted on the economy.
The lethargy in economic activity weighed heavily on investors 
sentiments resulting into capital outflows in major frontier and 
emerging markets as investors reallocated capital to near cash assets in 
developed economies as interest rates hiked in those markets. 
Due to this, the performance of listed securities in our market remained 
subdued in the review period in congruence with global asset prices 
which were characterized by sharp price volatility.  
The NSE continued to show resilience with the Board focused on 
ensuring the business remained profitable even in the challenging 
environment and spearheaded initiatives that will accelerate our 
growth over the next year. 
Supporting Business Growth
During the year, we continued to accelerate initiatives sought to 
support business growth. Key to this is our continued effort to 
diversify the business to cushion it from constant revenue pressures 
arising from market volatility.
Over the last few years, revenue from trading activity accounted 
for over 70% of the Group’s revenues. This posed critical revenue 
and business sustainability risks arising from market volatility that 
affected the growth of our revenues and profitability.
It is against this backdrop that we have accelerated growth from 
alternative revenue lines evidenced by a 78% growth in our data 
and information services revenues from Kshs. 52.5 Million to Kshs. 
93.5 Million with other products such as training and consulting 
services also increasing profitability. 
 
Renewed Commitment with 
Government
The performance and growth of frontier markets globally is heavily 
anchored on Government support and participation. I am pleased 
to inform our shareholders that the Kenya Kwanza Government 
has demonstrated significant interest to promote the growth and 
development of Kenya’s capital market.
During the year, the  NSE was privileged  to host His Excellency 
Hon. Dr. William Samoei Ruto C.G.H. PhD, President of the Republic 
of Kenya for a Bell Ringing Ceremony to mark the launch of the 
enhanced NSE Market Place. During his visit H.E. committed to 
revitalize the capital markets by embarking on the privatization 
of state owned enterprises and divest up to ten State Owned 
Enterprises. 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
12

13
The President equally made a commitment to review of 
the existing privatization law with a view to replacing it 
with a legal, less inhibiting and more facilitative policy 
framework to steward a rapid privatization process. 
The proposed draft Bill has already been developed and 
exposed to the public for comments. It now awaits the 
approval of the Cabinet and the President.
As a market, we welcome this commitment by the new 
Government and have continued to work together with 
the relevant Government agencies to accelerate the 
Privatization of state corporation through the NSE.
This move by the Government will play a crucial role in 
enhancing our market’s attractiveness to foreign investors 
as well as provide a sturdy boost to our equity market. 
Financial Performance 
As highlighted in the beginning of my statement, the 
performance of the business was greatly impacted by 
the macro-economic developments from a local and 
international level. Despite this challenges, the Board 
remained committed to ensuring the business continues to 
deliver sustainable returns to its shareholders. 
During the year, the Group reported a revenue decline 
from Kshs. 714 Million in 2021 to Kshs. 642 Million in 2022 
largely as a result of the reduced turnover in the equity 
trading business line. Equity levies reduced to Kshs. 225.8 
Million from Kshs. 329.8 Million reported in 2021. Bond 
levies however increased by 18% to settle at Kshs. 79.4 
Million in 2022 compared to Kshs. 66.9 Million reported 
in 2021.
Share of loss of associate (Central Depository & Settlement 
Corporation) increased from a loss of Kshs. 3.4 Million in 
2021 to a loss of Kshs. 46.5 Million in 2022 on account 
of reduced equity and bonds trading in 2022 and a staff 
restructuring cost resulting from the voluntary early 
retirement program undertaken by the associate in 2022.
A comprehensive review of the 2022 financial performance 
is highlighted in the Chief Executive’s review provided in 
this report. 
Dividends
Our dividend policy places special focus on growing 
shareholder returns, maintaining strong capital ratios to 
support the company’s take advantage of future growth 
opportunities and expansion strategies. 
In line with our dividend policy and resilient financial 
performance, the Board of Directors is pleased to propose 
a first and final dividend of Kshs. 0.20 per share in relation 
to the financial year ended 31 December 2022. 
Looking Ahead and Building for 
the Future 
The operating environment over the last few years has 
proved to be quite uncertain. Despite our inability to 
control external macro-economic factors, there remains 
opportunities for us to explore to ensure the business 
continues to grow in a sustainable manner. 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022

The NSE is well positioned for future growth. We have made strategic 
investments in products and market infrastructure that will spearhead 
our next phase of the company’s growth. Our technology is now able to 
support various products and trading capabilities such as day trading and 
securities lending and borrowing.
These capabilities are in addition to the extensive coverage through our 
multi-asset offering to investors that enables them deploy capital and 
manage risks. 
Guided by our strategy, we will continue to pursue various opportunities 
to expand our revenue base whilst maintaining cost discipline at an 
enterprise wide level.
In order to achieve growth at scale and at cost, the Board will promote 
strategic partnerships that will ensure we create unique solutions to 
capital seekers and capital owners in our market.
Capital markets financing still remains a core business offering by the 
Exchange and we are able to support medium to long term financial 
requirements through our debt and equity market solutions. 
We will continue to work closely with the Kenya kwanza Government 
to actualize the listing of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) through the 
privatization program on the back of their commitment to bring on board 
six to ten SOEs. Equally, we have revitalized our listing program targeting 
corporates and SMEs through partnerships with other capital market 
stakeholders.
Appreciation 
Our resilience in 2022 would not have been possible without the expertise 
and  strategic guidance of the Board. I want to take this opportunity to 
express my gratitude to my colleagues on the Board for the unwavering 
support accorded to me and the company during the year. 
I want to also sincerely thank the NSE staff and Management team 
for their tenacity, hard work and dedication in the fulfillment of the 
company’s objectives. We will continue to drive a culture of innovation 
and excellence among our employees for business growth. 
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our issuers, trading 
participants, domestic and international investors for supporting the 
market during the year. We look forward to a great year as we continue 
to offer a world class platform to investors looking to gain exposure to 
Kenya’s and Africa’s economic growth. 
 
Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Board Chairman
Nairobi Securities Exchange
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
14

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
15
NSE Data
Services
Access live or intra-day data on 
Equities,Fixed income and Equity 
Derivatives (single-stock futures (SSFs) and 
Index Futures) markets as well as market 
statistics data generated by the NSE
www.nse.co.ke

Chief Executive’s 
Review
Changing for Growth, Growing for 
Change
Dear Shareholders, 
On behalf of the Management and Staff of the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange, I am delighted to share with you highlights on the operational 
and financial performance of your company for the year ended 31 
December 2022. In the face of strong headwinds, we were guided by 
NSE’s mission to link capital to opportunity to enhance stakeholder 
value. Leveraging our resilient infrastructure and business model, we 
continued to meet commitments to shareholders and advance with our 
strategic growth plans, while exuding resilient operating results this year 
again. 
Operating Environment 
After navigating unprecedented pandemic-related market impacts 
since 2020, our markets have faced new and complex challenges as a 
result of geopolitical, macroeconomic and environmental uncertainty in 
2022. As ever, our priority in this context remained to be the investment 
partner of choice through providing efficient investments and capital 
raising services in Africa and globally.
Since the start of the Russia-Ukraine crisis in February 2022, resulting 
supply chain disruptions, ensuing food and energy crises, and concerns 
over potential global recession, contributed to a volatile and complex 
market and operating environment, compounding the effects of 
accelerating climate challenges and continued Covid-related impacts. 
Mr. Geoffrey Odundo
Chief Executive
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
16

The high inflation, tightening monetary policy conditions and slow 
demand for export products, negatively impacted global and regional 
economic growth. The International Monetary Fund estimates that 
international and regional growth declined by 2.6% and 1.1% to 
settle at 3.2% and 3.6% respectively. 
Domestically, the Kenyan economy remained resilient with the 
National Treasury estimating that the country would record a Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP) growth of 5.5% in the year under review, 
compared to 7.5% recorded in the year 2021. This reduction is 
largely attributable to a sharp increase in energy and food prices 
stemming from geo-political tensions in Eastern Europe and the 
prevailing drought situation. 
The country also posted heightened inflation which averaged 7.65% 
throughout the year, exceeding the upper limit set by the Central 
Bank of Kenya of 7.5%. The Kenyan shilling depreciated against the 
US dollar closing the year at Kshs. 123.37 compared to Kshs. 113.14 
at the beginning of the review period.
Market Performance
During the year, the equity market was negatively impacted by rising 
international and domestic interest rates, which resulted in capital 
outflows and a reallocation of capital towards fixed income assets. 
The United States Federal Reserve Bank raised the Fed rate seven 
times in the year under review to settle at 4.50% at the close of the 
year up from 0.25% at the beginning of the year. The Central Bank 
of Kenya (CBK) raised the reserve rate (CBR) three times in the year 
to close at 8.75% up from 7% at the beginning of the year. Equity 
market turnover declined by 31%, to close the year at Kshs. 94.2 
Billion from Kshs. 137.4 Billion in 2021. Bond turnover also recorded 
a decline of 21% to settle at Kshs. 741 Billion from Kshs. 956 Billion. 
The NSE 20 Share Index declined by 11.9% to settle at 1,676.10 points 
in 2022 down from 1,902.57 points in 2021. 
The Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) market recorded a turnover of Kshs. 
1.28 Billion compared to Kshs. 139 Million recorded in the previous 
year supported by favorable gold prices. 
The NSE Unquoted Securities Platform (USP) recorded a total turnover 
of Kshs. 647 Million, an increase of 67.2% compared to Kshs. 387 
Million recorded in 2021. The USP Is increasingly becoming an attractive 
fundraising platform for unlisted companies. 
The Derivatives Market recorded a turnover of Kshs. 125 Million 
representing a 57% decrease compared to Kshs. 289 Million in 2021. 
The total number of outstanding positions held by investors stood at 
429 contracts worth approximately Kshs. 13.5 Million in 2022, down 
from 939 contracts worth Kshs. 36 Million in 2021. This decrease 
replicates the performance of the equity market
Financial Highlights
The Group reported a revenue decline from Kshs. 714 Million in 2021 
to Kshs. 642 Million in 2022 largely as a result of the reduced turnover 
in the equity trading business line. Equity levies reduced to Kshs. 225.8 
Million from Kshs. 329.8 Million reported in 2021. 
Bond levies however increased by 18% to settle at Kshs. 79.4 Million in 
2022 compared to Kshs. 66.9 Million reported in 2021. 
Data business recorded tremendous growth with revenue increasing 
to Kshs. 93.5 Million from Kshs. 52.5 Million recorded in 2021 owing 
to improved product uptake, introduction of new data sets and our 
partnership with an international data consultant. 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
17

Total expenses increased by 13% from Kshs. 487.8 Million in 2021 
to Kshs. 551 Million in 2022 on account of increased marketing 
expenses, cost of business support activities and revaluation loss 
incurred on the property. 
Share of loss of associate (Central Depository & Settlement 
Corporation) increased from a loss of Kshs. 3.4 Million in 2021 to a 
loss of Kshs. 46.5 Million in 2022 on account of reduced equity and 
bonds trading in 2022 and staff restructuring costs resulting from 
the voluntary early retirement program undertaken by the associate 
in 2022. 
Other comprehensive income in 2022 includes fair value gain of Kshs. 
31.5 Million on share price appreciation in our equity investment in 
the Dar-es-salaam Stock Exchange. 
Total assets decreased marginally by 8% from Kshs. 2.2 Billion in 
2021 to Kshs. 2 Billion in 2022 on reduced profitability, a revaluation 
loss on our property asset and reduced cash reserves on 2021 special 
dividends paid in 2022. 
Return on assets and return on equity reduced from 5.89% and 
6.31% respectively in 2021 to 0.68% and 0.74% in 2022.Cash flow 
from investing activities in the year decreased on the purchase of 
additional Government bonds and investment in fixed deposits with 
maturities of more than three months. 
Cash and cash equivalents reduced to Kshs. 251.7 Million in 
2022 from Kshs. 613.1 Million in 2021 on account of additional 
investments made in Government securities of Kshs. 93.4 Million, 
fixed deposits of Kshs. 86.8 Million and dividend payment of Kshs. 
243 Million. Total investable assets stood at Kshs. 841.2 Million, 
inclusive of the regulatory restricted funds amounting to Kshs. 
296.5 Million.
Positive Group Outlook
The global economic outlook remains fragile on account of increasing 
interest rates, heightened inflation and reduced economic activity. 
The resultant impact is a reduction in trading activity in global 
equity markets and increased capital allocation to fixed income and 
alternative assets. 
In line with this, the Exchange has positioned itself to mitigate the 
impact of these economic challenges through broadening of its 
product offering to include Derivatives, REITs, ETFs and the USP. 
Capital markets financing still remains a core business offering by the 
Exchange and we are able to support medium to long term financial 
requirements through our debt and equity market solutions. We are 
now partnering with the Kenya Government to actualize the listing 
of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) through its privatization program 
on the back of their commitment to bring on board six to ten SOEs in 
the ensuing period. Equally, we have revitalized our listing program 
targeting corporates and SMEs through partnerships with other 
capital market stakeholders. 
The Exchange continues to play a leading role in providing a venue 
for capital raising financing. 
Through our diversified product offering, we are now able to support 
capital requirements for the national Government, Corporate and 
SMEs businesses, real estate practitioners and portfolio managers 
seeking to de-risk their investments. 
Our Ibuka Program and the Unquoted Securities Platform (USP) aim 
to promote capital raising by small and medium sized enterprises. 
The two offer enterprises flexible admission requirements for 
companies seeking access to affordable and competitive capital to 
fund their growth and expansion. 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
18

The Board has initiated strategic revenue diversification initiatives to 
ensure the business continues to grow shareholder value especially in 
a tough operating environment. Core to these initiatives is to increase 
revenue from alternative income lines such as data, ETFs and REITs 
which recorded an exceptional performance in 2022. The company 
targets to increase the attributions from these income lines. 
To increase trading activity in the market, we will build on our day 
trading infrastructure which contributed to 2% of total turnover 
in 2022 with a target of 5% this year. The NSE in partnership with 
other stakeholders have launched a retail mobile application, named 
Dosikaa, which will support retail investors participation in our market. 
New Strides For Sustainable 
Development
Sustainability remains a central focus for the Exchange. To this end, the 
NSE has established a green bond market and supported compliance 
to Environmental, Social and governance (ESG) through the NSE ESG 
Guidance and Disclosure Manual that is currently in use by companies 
seeking to comply with ESG standards. 
We are also working towards the development of a carbon credits 
trading market. We have to date, listed the first green bond in the 
region. We will soon be providing ratings and assessment services for 
ESG for listed companies. 
The market is currently undervalued hence providing a very good 
entry point for investors. This is in line with the Government’s focus 
of enhancing savings among Kenyans. The capital markets remain an 
attractive investment opportunity for the attainment of this objective.
Appreciation
On behalf of the Management of the Exchange, I would like to 
extend my appreciation and gratitude to our Board of Directors for 
their guidance to our staff for their loyalty and dedication, to our 
Regulator for their excellent work and to listed companies, trading 
participants and service providers for their unwavering support.
Our work does not stop here, as we step up activation of our 
strategic plans to maintain the positive momentum we have built, 
adapting to the fundamental shifts we see playing out: evolving 
consumption trends toward alternative products, digitalization and 
disruptive innovation, and accelerating developments to address the 
increasingly urgent need for decarbonization and more sustainable 
capital markets amid global climate and macroeconomic uncertainty. 
Our success in these endeavors will depend significantly on the 
ability of our talented teams to develop, embrace new ideas and 
skill sets, and work with one mind as we transform together for 
tomorrow in 2023 and beyond. 
Geoffrey O. Odundo
Chief Executive
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
19

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
20
www.nse.co.ke
Directors’
Report

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
21
Directors’ Report
The directors present their annual report together with the audited financial statements 
of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE/the “Company”/the “Exchange”) and its 
subsidiaries and structured entities (together, the “Group”) for the year ended 31 
December 2022, which show the state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
Principal Activities
The Company is the sole securities exchange licensed by the Capital Markets Authority 
to promote, develop, support and carry on the business of a securities exchange and to 
discharge all the functions of a securities exchange in Kenya.
NSE Clear Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the NSE. The principal objectives 
of NSE Clear Limited are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to 
provide clearing and settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether 
carried out on or off a securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative 
securities transactions and to carry out all activities that pertain to a clearing house. 
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF) are trusts whose main purpose is to strengthen the financial 
integrity of the derivatives market, ensure settlement of transactions in derivatives 
securities in case of default by a clearing member and satisfy specified claims by the 
investing public arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading 
members or losses incurred by reason of the default of the trading members. The Board 
of Directors of the NSE Clear Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and IPF who manage 
and administer these funds. 
The Company’s holding in AKS Nominees Ltd (AKS) is 89% (2021: 89%). AKS holds 
an 18% shareholding in the ordinary shares of the Central Depository & Settlement 
Corporation (CDSC) (2021: 18%). The principal activity of the subsidiary is holding equity 
shares in CDSC in trust for its members who are authorised to operate as stockbrokers 
and investment banks in the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE).
In 2020, the Company incorporated the NSE Limited Liability Partnership (NSE LLP). The 
Partners of the NSE LLP are the NSE PLC, the Chief Executive and the Chief Operating 
Officer of the NSE PLC. The LLP has a Management Committee that oversees the day to 
day activities of the LLP. The Management Committee of the LLP reports to the Board 
of Directors of NSE PLC. The principal activity of the LLP is to run the recently launched 
Unquoted Securities Platform. As per the Partnership Deed, NSE PLC contributed 100% 
of the capital of the NSE LLP and is allocated all profits and losses of the NSE LLP.
Business Review
The Group reported a revenue decline from Kshs. 714 Million in 2021 to Kshs.  642 
Million in 2022 largely as a result of the reduced turnover in the equity trading business 
line. Equity levies reduced to Kshs. 225.8 Million from Kshs. 329.8 Million reported in 
2021. Bonds levies however increased by 18% to settle at Kshs. 79.4 Million in 2022 
compared to Kshs. 66.9 Million reported in 2021.
Data business recorded tremendous growth with revenue increasing to Kshs. 93.5 
Million from Kshs. 52.5 Million recorded in 2021 owing to improved product uptake, 
introduction of new data sets and our partnership with an international data consultant. 
Total expenses increased by 13% from Kshs. 487.8 Million in 2021 to Kshs. 551 Million 
in 2022 on account of  increased marketing expenses, cost of business support activities 
and revaluation loss incurred on the property. 
Share of loss of associate (Central Depository & Settlement Corporation) increased from 
a loss of Kshs. 3.4 Million in 2021 to a loss of Kshs. 46.5 Million in 2022 on  account of 
reduced equity and bonds trading in 2022 and  staff restructuring costs resulting from 
the voluntary early retirement undertaken by the associate in 2022. 
Other comprehensive income in 2022 includes fair value gain of Kshs. 31.5 Million 
following the appreciation of Dar-es-salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) share prices. 
Total assets decreased marginally by 8% from Kshs. 2.2 Billion in 2021 to Kshs. 2 Billion 
in 2022. This was as a result of reduced profitability, a revaluation loss incurred on our 
property asset and reduced cash reserves on special dividends paid in 2022 for the year 
2021.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
22
Return on assets and return on equity reduced from 5.89% and 6.31% respectively in 
2021 to 0.68% and 0.74% in 2022. 
Cash flow from investing activities in the year was negative on the purchase of additional 
Government bonds and investment in fixed deposits with maturities of more than three 
months.
Our cash and cash equivalents reduced to Kshs. 251.7 Million in 2022 from Kshs. 613.1 
Million in 2021 on account of additional investments made in Government securities  of 
Kshs. 93.4 Million and fixed deposits of Kshs. 86.8 Million. Total investable assets stood 
at Kshs. 841.2 Million, inclusive of the regulatory restricted funds amounting to Kshs. 
296.5 Million.
DIVIDEND
The Group profit for the year of Kshs 13,724,000 (2021: Kshs 132,534,000) has 
been added to retained earnings. The Directors recommend the approval of a 
first and final dividend of Kshs 0.20 per share amounting to Kshs 52 Million 
(2021: Kshs 1.40 per share amounting to Kshs 364 Million).
DIRECTORS
Mr. Paul Vollant retired as a Director on 3 June 2022. Mr. John Niepold and Ms. 
Carol Kariuki were appointed as Directors on the same date.
The current members of the Board of Directors are as shown on page 2.
Directors’ Report (Continued)
DISCLOSURES TO AUDITOR 
The directors confirm that with respect to each director at the time of approval 
of this report:  
a)  there is, as far as each director is aware, no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
b)  each director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director 
so as to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS
Deloitte & Touche LLP, having expressed their willingness, continue in office in 
accordance with the provisions of section 719 (2) of the Kenyan Companies Act, 
2015.
The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the 
auditor. This responsibility includes the approval of the audit engagement 
contract and the associated fees on behalf of the shareholders.
By order of the Board
Mr. Kuria Waithaka
Secretary
30 March 2023 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
23
Directors Profiles
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Kiprono Kittony is the Chairman of the Nairobi Securities Exchange. He holds 
both a Bachelor of Commerce (B.Com) degree and a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B) degree 
from the University of Nairobi and a Global Executive MBA from the United States 
International University (USIU).
Mr. Kittony was appointed Chairman of the NSE Board on July 13, 2020 and as a 
Board Director of the NSE on May 30, 2018. He is the immediate former National 
Chairman of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce & Industry (KNCCI), the 
premier business membership organization in Kenya.
He is an established entrepreneur and business leader having served in several 
capacities including being the immediate past Chairman of the Media Owners 
Association and AAR Insurance Limited. During his seven year tenure at the 
KNCCI, he was widely credited with revitalizing the organization through a series 
of transformative initiatives that placed the Chamber at the forefront in terms of 
shaping national trade and general economic policy.
He serves as the chair of the CreditInfo CRB Kenya Limited, Mtech Limited and 
Radio Africa Group (which he co-founded in 2000) and the Central Depository 
& Settlement Corporation (CDSC). He sits on the advisory council of the 
International Fund for Health in Africa (IFHA), an Amsterdam based private equity 
fund and is one of two representatives from Africa in the Global Council of the 
World Chambers Federation.
Mr. Paul Mwai 
Non – Independent Director 
Representing Trading Participants
Mr. Mwai holds an MBA from Strathmore University and a Bachelors of Business 
from the University of Southern Queensland. He holds an Investment Management 
Certificate from UK Society for Investment Professionals and is an Associate 
Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers. He is an Authorized Representative 
for the Growth Enterprise Market Segment (GEMS) of the NSE.
Mr. Mwai was appointed a Board Director of the NSE on May 30, 2018. He is 
the Chief Executive of AIB-AXYS Africa Ltd and the immediate former Chairman 
of the Kenya Association of Stockbrokers and Investment Banks (KASIB). He has 
over twenty 30 years’ experience in the financial services industry including fund 
management and investment banking.
He has worked in various departments within the Barclays Group, including 
Barclays Merchant Finance Ltd (BMFL) and Barclays Dealing Centre, before joining 
the Barclaytrust Investment Services Group in 1998 as a Fund Manager. 
He served as a Senior Portfolio Manager at Old Mutual Asset Managers following 
the acquisition of BarclayTrust by Old Mutual in October 2002 and as an Asset 
Allocation Strategist. He joined AIB-AXYS Africa Ltd in February 2012 from 
African Alliance Investment Bank where he was Chief Executive.
Mr. Geoffrey Odundo
Chief Executive
Mr. Odundo is the Chief Executive of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc (NSE) a 
position he has held for the last Eight (8) years. He is an accomplished Investment 
Banker and has been in the financial services sector for the last 30 years holding 
senior roles in the Asset Management, Corporate Finance and Securities Trading. 
Prior to this, he was the Managing Director of Kingdom Securities Limited and Chief 
Manager, Merchant and Investment Banking at the Co-operative Bank of Kenya 
Group.  
Mr. Odundo is a Director of the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation 
Limited; NSE Clear Limited and Trustee of the NSE Fidelity Funds. He is the Vice 
Chairman of the REITs Association of Kenya (RAK) and a past Director of the 
Association of Stock Exchanges of Africa (ASEA).
Mr. Odundo is a Council Member of the Institute of Certified Financial Analysts 
(ICIFA), member of Working Committee of the World Federation of Exchanges 
(WFE) and a member of the Central Bank of Kenya’s Consolidated Fund for Debt 
Management (CFDDM) Committee.
He holds a Masters Degree in Strategic Management and an undergraduate degree 
in Mathematics and Economics and is an Advanced Management Program (AMP) 
graduate from Strathmore/IESE (Spain) Business School.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
24
Directors Profiles (Continued)
Mr. Donald Wangunyu
Non-Executive Director Representing 
Trading Participants
Donald serves as the Chairman of the Board of the Kenya Association of 
Stockbrokers and Investment Banks (KASIB). 
Previously, he has served as the chairman of the KASIB committees overseeing the 
growth of long-term funding for KASIB, the industry committee that oversaw the 
removal of capital gains tax from listed market securities, the Broker Back Office 
System (BBO) Functionality Management Committee.  BBO is the system used by 
all stock-brokers and investment bank in Kenya.
Donald further serves on the board of Standard Investment Bank and chairs the 
Risk and compliance board committee of the investment bank.
Donald is a member of the Planning and Economic Council of the Dominican 
Friars of East Africa and an Advisory Board member of the East Africa Forum 
for Alternative Investments.  His broad experience further includes serving as a 
member of the Capital Markets Master Plan implementation group, the Central 
Depository and Settlement Corporate’s (CDSC) Market Operations committee and 
the system selection committees of the CDSC.
Donald is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of FourFront Management, the 
first and only Fully licensed Robo-Advisor in the Country.
Mr. Michael Turner
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Michael Turner holds a first class degree in Civil Engineering. He is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales. Michael was appointed a 
Board Director of the NSE on March 26, 2015. 
He is the Managing Director of Actis Limited in East Africa and is responsible for 
Actis’s USD 300 million Private Equity Fund with investment in Energy and Real 
Estate in East Africa. He has extensive experience in private equity having served 
as the Manager of the Actis Africa Agribusiness Fund and the founder manager 
of the first Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SME) Private Equity fund in East 
Africa – the Acacia Fund. 
Turner has deep understanding of Private Equity investment in agribusiness, 
financial services, real estate and infrastructure throughout Sub Saharan Africa. 
Prior to joining Actis, Michael worked in investment banking in London for Lehman 
Brothers and Kleinwort Benson, having started his career with Price Waterhouse.
Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto
Non-Executive Director Representing 
Listed Companies
Ms. Alaro holds an MBA in Finance from the United States International University 
Africa (USIU) and a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Management from Moi University. 
She is a fellow of the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants (FCCA), 
a member of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK), an 
International Coach Federation Professional Certified Coach (PCC), and a Certified 
Executive Leadership Coach. She is a fellow of the Archbishop Desmond Tutu 
Africa Leadership Fellowship.
Ms. Alaro was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of NSE on May 
30, 2018.  She also serves as a Non-Executive Director on the Boards of Bank of 
Kigali PLC, Kenya Climate Ventures Ltd and Population Services Kenya (PSK). She is 
currently serves as the Group Finance Director at Centum Group PLC.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
25
Directors Profiles (Continued)
Mr. Stephen Chege
Non-Executive Director 
Representing Listed Companies
Mr. Stephen Chege is the Chief Regulatory & External 
Affairs Officer, Vodacom Group.
Stephen joined Vodacom as Chief External Affairs Officer: 
Vodacom Group in November 2021. Stephen has a 
deep background in Regulatory and Legal Affairs. He is 
responsible for Group Regulatory, External and Corporate 
Affairs, which includes Public Policy, Communications, 
Media Relations, Group Corporate Social Investment (CSI) 
and Sustainability. The role covers all the Vodacom Group 
markets: DRC, Egypt, Lesotho, Mozambique, Tanzania 
and South Africa. He will also support Safaricom PLC and 
Safaricom Telecommunications Ethiopia PLC.
He holds a Bachelor of Law, a Masters of Law in 
International Trade and Investment Law, and is an advocate
of the High Court of Kenya, as well as a Notary Public and 
a Certified Public Secretary
Ms. Carole Kariuki
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Carole Kariuki holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Economics 
and Sociology from the University of Nairobi and a 
Master’s Degree in Public Administration from Bowling 
Green State University, Ohio, USA. She has also pursued 
several professional courses on Stakeholder Management, 
Leadership and Private Sector Development among others.
Carole before joining KEPSA did work briefly for Barclays 
Bank of Kenya, Nairobi Chapel and Sagamore Institute for 
Public Policy Research, Indianapolis – Indiana, where she 
acted as a liaison between Kenya Private Sector Alliance 
(KEPSA) and the Institute before formally joining KEPSA. 
She worked for several years at KEPSA before being 
appointed KEPSA CEO.
Ms. Kariuki is credited for transforming KEPSA from a little-
known Business Organisation to one of the most influential 
Organisations in Kenya and Globally. KEPSA is the Apex 
body of the private sector in Kenya, galvanizing the private 
sector through public-private dialogue and influencing the 
economic and development agenda.
Mr. John Nieopold 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Mr. Niepold has over 25 years of experience in frontier 
investing in Africa and the Middle East. In 2010, he founded 
SQM Frontier Management LLP and served as the Managing 
Partner and Portfolio Manager for the firm’s Frontier Africa 
Fund. Prior to founding SQM, Mr. Niepold was a Portfolio 
Manager and Partner at Emerging Markets Management (EMM) 
where he launched and managed the first fund dedicated 
to investing in Africa’s frontier stock markets among other 
achievements.
Mr. Niepold also served as an equity analyst in Southeast 
Asia for Crosby Securities and as an independent consultant 
covering frontier markets throughout the world. Mr. Niepold 
has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from Davidson 
College and a Master of Business Administration degree from 
the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North 
Carolina/Chapel Hill.
Ms. Isis Nyong’o 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Isis brings deep experience in navigating the Africa business 
landscape. As a Partner at Asphalt & Ink, she advises leading 
global foundations, investors, and technology companies 
on their Africa strategies. She is well established in Africa’s 
technology ecosystem having played an instrumental 
role in shaping Africa’s digital economy through notable 
leadership positions at Google, InMobi, and MTV Networks. 
With a background that includes partnership development, 
early-stage venture building and board service (public 
and private), she possesses a nuanced understanding 
of how scale organizations across the continent. She is 
involved in various initiatives to improve gender equality 
including co-founding WomenWork, a digital network of 
entrepreneurial women through which she has a direct 
grasp of the challenges and opportunities in the women’s 
entrepreneurship ecosystem in Africa. Isis is a graduate of 
Stanford University & Harvard Business School and also 
serves on the board of LGT Venture Philanthropy.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
26
NSE Executive 
Committee Members 
Geoffrey Odundo
Chief Executive
Jane Kiarie
Chief Finance Officer
Mbithe Muema
Chief Business Officer
Kuria Waithaka
Company Secretary & Chief 
Legal Officer 
Lucy Kamar
Chief Officer, HR & Admin
Irungu Wagemma
Chief Officer, Strategy, Risk 
& Compliance
Titus Kiilu
Chief Officer, Regulatory Affairs
David Wainaina
Chief Operating Officer
Fredrick Okong’o
Chief Internal Audit
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
26

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
27
www.nse.co.ke
Corporate
Governance
Policy Statement

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
28
Corporate Governance Policy Statements
Board Charter
The Board of Directors of the NSE regard corporate 
governance as key to the achievement of NSE’s 
mission and vision, and is committed to applying the 
core governance principles.
The NSE Board Charter outlines the;
1.	 Roles, functions, responsibilities and powers of 
the Board, individual directors and the officials 
and executives of the NSE;
2.	 Powers delegated to various Board Committees 
of the NSE; and
3.	 Policies and practices of the Board in respect of 
matters such as corporate governance, trading by 
directors, declarations and conflicts of interest, 
Board meeting documentation and procedures 
and the nomination of directors, training and 
evaluation of directors and members of Board 
committees.
Whilst the Board Charter includes references to 
minimum acceptable standards of conduct, the 
Board embraces global best practices in this regard.
Board Diversity
The NSE Board has put in place a policy to ensure 
the achievement of diversity in its composition. 
The Remuneration and Nominating Committee 
assess the required skills mix and expertise for 
the executive directors as well as Independent 
and Non-Executive Directors. The Board considers 
factors such as: size, qualifications, technical 
expertise, relevant industry knowledge, experience, 
nationality, age, gender and other demographics 
with a view to enhancing effectiveness.
NSE promotes diversity by championing Gender 
Equality, alongside other exchanges, investors, 
private sector and regulators.
The Board Profiles on pages 23-25 has more details 
on size, age, gender, qualifications among other 
factors.
Board Induction and Training
The NSE Board has established a formal induction 
program for the Board. All Board members receive 
induction on joining the Board and are updated on 
the various skills and knowledge at regular intervals.
Board members are provided with necessary 
orientation in the areas of the Company’s business 
(the Company’s operations, product offerings, 
regulatory framework and the business environment) 
in order to enhance their effectiveness. They 
are also introduced to their fiduciary duties and 
responsibilities.
The Board has also put in place training programs 
for the members.
Code of Corporate Governance 
Principles
The Board and Management of the NSE have put in 
place deliberate effort towards full compliance with 
the Capital Markets Code of Corporate Governance 
Practice for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 
(the “Code”).
In compliance with the Code, NSE conducted a 
Governance Audit and the Legal & Compliance 
Audit in 2018 through Strategic Business Solutions 
International Limited (SBSIL). All recommendations 
made during the audit were fully implemented. 
However, NSE is planning to do a Legal and 
Governance audit in 2023 in line with amendments 
to The Code of Corporate Governance Practices 
for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 through 
circular no.1 of 2020 released by the Capital Markets 
Authority on January 2, 2020.
After further consultations & engagements with the 
stakeholders, taking into account the issues raised 
and wider stakeholders’ interests, the Authority 
will be amending the Code in order to reschedule 
the governance audits to at least once in every 2 
years with the option of the Authority increasing or 
decreasing the cycle based on a risk based approach. 
In all cases, in any period in which a governance audit 
has not been undertaken, the issuer will be required 
to detail the progress made in implementing prior 
audit recommendations.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
29
Corporate Governance Policy Statements (Continued)
Board Remuneration
The NSE Board has established formal and 
transparent remuneration policies to attract and 
retain both Executive and Non-Executive Board 
members. These policies clearly state remuneration 
elements such as Directors’ fees and attendance 
allowances that are competitive and in line with the 
industry practice. Non-Executive Directors are paid 
a sitting allowance for every meeting attended.
The Company does not grant any personal loans, 
guarantees, share options or long term incentives 
to its Non-Executive Directors. Neither are the Non-
Executive Directors eligible for provident fund. The 
company has taken out insurance covers for the 
non- executive Directors covering Directors and 
Officers liability insurance cover and group personal 
accident covering death, permanent total disability 
and medical expenses.
The Chief Executive is the only Executive Director 
on the Board and the company has in place a 
remuneration policy which is aimed at ensuring 
compensation is competitive and aligned to the 
company’s strategic objectives.
Code of Ethics and Conduct
The Company has a Code of Ethics and Conduct 
Policy. All Board members and NSE employees 
are required to uphold the highest standards of 
integrity, ethical standards and excellence in line 
with NSE’s core values of Integrity, Excellence, 
Teamwork, 
Sustainability, 
and 
Accountability. 
The performance on ethics has been good and is 
monitored periodically with all staff having to sign 
the Annual Code of Conduct Attestations.
NSE recognizes that ethical business brings 
sustainable business. We are committed to playing 
a proactive role in a globally competitive and 
prosperous nation operating on ethical business 
standards as evidenced by our involvement in 
various ethical and sustainable initiatives such as 
the UN Global Compact, being signatory the Code 
of Ethics for Business in Kenya among others.
Whistleblowing
The NSE Board has put in place a Whistleblowing 
Policy that recognizes the difficulty its stakeholders 
may face in raising their concerns with regards to 
the Company operations.
The Policy protects every employee and business 
partner who raises a concern in good faith. 
The Company will treat every concern raised 
by an employee in good faith seriously and in a 
confidential manner and does not retaliate or allow 
any retaliation or discrimination by its employees of 
any kind against any employee who raises a concern 
in good faith.
Stakeholders can raise their concerns with the 
relevant Company officials and/or through the 
available reporting channels. Staff and other 
stakeholders are regularly sensitized on the need to 
report any suspected unethical business practices and 
procedures to make such reports.
The summary of this policy is available in our 
website.
Insider Dealing
The NSE has an insider trading policy guided by 
Sections 32A – 33 of Part VI of the Capital Markets 
Act (Cap 485A) which prohibits insider trading. The 
policy provides procedures and guidelines with respect 
to transactions in the NSE securities, the protection 
of Insider Information and the standard of conduct 
expected of the NSE directors, officers and employees. 
Internal stakeholders are made aware that they ought 
not to trade in the Company’s shares while in possession 
of any insider information that is not available to the 
public or during a closed period. NSE’s closed period 
covers between 1st January until publication of full 
year results and 1st July until publication of half year 
results.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
30
Conflict of Interest
The Board has put in place a policy to manage 
conflict of interest. As a procedure, Directors declare 
any real or perceived conflict of interest with the 
Company and such disclosures are reflected in the 
Minutes of the Board and Committee’s meeting. 
The Company Secretary maintains and updates the 
register of declared conflict of interest. The Board is 
appraised on the statutory duty to avoid situations in 
which they have or may have interests that conflict 
with those of the Company.
All business transactions with Board members or 
their related parties are carried out at arms’ length. 
In practice, there is an acknowledgement that if 
it comes to the attention of a Board member that 
a matter concerning the Company may result in a 
conflict of interest, the Board member is obligated 
to declare and exclude himself/herself from any 
deliberations, voting or decision over the matter in 
conflict.
Enterprise Risk Management
The objective of the NSE’s Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) framework is to protect 
shareholders’ value in order to enhance NSE’s 
competitive 
advantage, 
improve 
business 
performance and optimize risk management and 
compliance value. The framework is aligned to 
ISO 31000:2018 Risk Management Guidelines, 
COSO Enterprise Risk Management 2017 as well the 
applicable laws, regulations and guidelines.
(More notes on page 31 - 32)
Information and Communication 
Technology
The NSE leverages heavily on technology to deliver 
its core mandate of delivering a world class trading 
platform.
The NSE Board has prioritized cyber security and 
related Information Technology risks. To ensure 
confidentiality, integrity and availability of the 
various platforms, the Exchange has adopted the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Cyber Security Framework as the back bone of its 
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) 
and Cyber Security policies. Being a full member 
of the World Federation of Exchange (WFE), the 
NSE is constantly benchmarking with international 
best practices as well and has tailored the policy 
framework relevant to securities trading.
The Exchange has in place relevant ICT policies, 
procedures as well as enforcing the practices that 
are congruent to these policies.
The Management and staff are actively driving 
a cyber security conscious culture within the 
organization. There is commensurate investment in 
setting up controls and monitoring tools to assure 
the various stakeholders of security in access and 
use of the ICT assets of the organization.
Procurement Policy
We have in place a robust Procurement Policy that 
ensures appropriate risk assurance, integrity in all 
procurement activities, consistency across the 
organizations purchasing practices and openness 
and transparency of decision making when dealings 
with suppliers/service providers.
The policy is based on notable principles: namely, 
value for money, open and fair competition, risk 
management, accountability and building mutually 
beneficial relationships with our suppliers. A 
Management Tender Committee oversees the award 
of tenders and reports to the Finance and Strategy 
Committee of the Board based on the limits as set 
out in the Procurement Policy and Procedures.	
Corporate Governance Policy Statements (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
31
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework
The committee provides enterprise risk management 
(ERM) oversight by monitoring the implementation 
of the NSE risk framework and driving corrective 
actions based on the risk reporting provided.
NSE Management
The NSE executive and its management structures 
are responsible for applying the defined risk 
management process across the enterprise. This is 
done to enable management to identify potential 
events that, if they occur, will affect the NSE in 
terms of achieving its enterprise objectives. Risks 
must be managed within the NSE’s set risk appetite.
Risk appetite is a measure and allocation of the 
amount of risk that the NSE is willing to accept in 
pursuit of its strategy and states that the NSE will 
only tolerate risks that permit us to:
	»
achieve our strategic business objectives; 
	»
comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations;
	»
conduct our business in a safe and sound 
manner; and,
	»
protect and/or enhance our shareholder 
value)
Chief Executive Office
The Chief Executive Office, under which the Strategy, 
Risk and Compliance functions are domiciled, is 
responsible for enterprise risk framework and 
spearheads implementation and reporting for ERM. 
This includes:
	»
defining and implementing the risk process
	»
facilitating risk workshops as may be deemed 
necessary;
	»
ensuring updates to risk reporting at least 
quarterly
	»
ensuring risk actions are updated and 
tracked;
	»
compiling and presenting report-backs to 
line management;
	»
providing formal risk reporting to the NSE 
executive committee;
	»
providing 
risk 
reporting 
to 
the 
Risk 
Committee of the Board; and
	»
entrenching risk management as an effective 
management tool in the enterprise.
Risk Management Approach
Risk management is conducted using the Committee 
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (COSO) framework guidelines and is in 
line with principles defined in ISO 31000. 
Background
The objective of the NSE’s  Enterprise  Risk Mana-
gement (ERM) framework is to protect shareholders’ 
value in order to enhance NSE’s competitive 
advantage, improve business performance and 
optimize risk management and compliance value. 
The framework is aligned to ISO 31000:2018 Risk 
Management Guidelines, COSO Enterprise Risk 
Management 2017 as well the applicable laws, 
regulations and guidelines. The NSE has succeeded 
in applying the risk framework to such an extent as 
to make risk management not only a reporting and 
oversight obligation, but a management discipline. 
In support of this, an internal risk working group 
was established in 2018 and in 2019, NSE joined 
World Federation of Exchanges Enterprise Risk 
Management Working Group, to further support 
the formal risk reporting structures and to drive risk 
management into the organisational practice.
Roles and responsibilities
NSE Board and Risk Committee
The NSE Board has constituted the Audit, Risk & 
Compliance Committee to help it to discharge 
its duties and responsibilities with regard to risk 
management. 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
32
Risks are analysed in the context of the NSE risk framework and cover the 
following categories:
Operational risk – The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems, or from external events, in the following areas:
	»
Human capital related;
	»
Technology and systems;
	»
Information security;
	»
Fraud and theft;
	»
Procurement and third party;
	»
Contracts management;
	»
Legal and compliance;
	»
Business disruption and continuity;
	»
Regulation of markets;
	»
Market operations;
	»
NSE client concentration;
	»
Strategic arrangements; and
	»
Reputation.
Finance risk – This is an umbrella term for any risk associated with any form 
of financial management of the enterprise such as market risk, credit risk, price 
risk, liquidity risk, capital risk, etc. 
Strategic risk – This risk is the impact on the organisation arising from adverse 
business decisions and/or the lack of responsiveness to changes.
Black swan risk – Anticipating and considering low probability (not identified as 
a possible emerging risk on its risk radar) and catastrophic impact events as part 
of the enterprise’s risk approach. 
A good example of a black swan risk is the Covid-19 pandemic whose impacts 
are catastrophic and their occurrence are extremely rare. Management of a 
black swan risk requires adequate business continuity planning measures which 
NSE is happy to report have been operationalized successfully.
Risk Management Governance Model 
NSE has successfully deployed the three lines of defense model with Board 
oversight under the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee. See illustration 
below of how the risk governance model is structured.
The above risk governance model at NSE can be broken down as follows:
	»
Business areas through the risk champions and risk owners are required 
to provide risk reporting to the risk team in the Strategy, Risk and 
Compliance Department.
	»
An enterprise-wide risk report is then compiled by the risk team and 
presented to NSE Management for comment and ratification before the 
report is submitted to the Risk Management Committee of the Board.
	»
The Risk Management Committee of the Board, in turn, provides 
assurance to the NSE Board on both the acceptability of the NSE’s risk 
profile as well as the effective functioning of the risk process.
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
33
NSE enables value creation by providing a trusted 
and well-regulated financial market infrastructure 
to support the economy. Our value creation process 
is embedded in our mission - Linking capital to 
opportunity to enhance stakeholder value.
Core focus of value creation
The ongoing relevance as an exchange and our 
ability to create long-term value for stakeholders, 
are dependent on various forms of capital/areas 
of values creation in our finances, technologies, 
brand equity, talent stakeholder relationships and 
sustainability.
Our Finances
NSE PLC’s funding is sourced from shareholders and 
internally generated income. These funds are used to 
run NSE’s operations with a view to generate profits. As 
at 31 December 2022, these stood at issued share 
capital of Sh. 1,041.57 million, share premium of 
Sh. 279 million and retained earnings of Sh. 540.78 
million. Financial resources are required to operate 
the business and support growth, expansion and 
innovation. NSE balances the need to distribute 
value to investors through a balanced return to 
shareholders, reinvestment and reduced prices to 
clients.
Strategic Partnerships and 
Relationships
NSE engages actively with key stakeholders in the 
Kenyan Capital Market in achieving its mission of 
linking capital to opportunity. These include; the 
Capital Markets Authority-Kenya, Kenya Association 
of Stock Brokers and Investment Banks (KASIB), the 
Kenyan Government, market participants, among 
others. On 11th October 2022, for example the 
NSE hosted the Bell ringing ceremony launching an 
enhanced Market Place, officiated by His Excellency 
Hon. William Samoei Ruto, Phd, C.G.H., President 
of the republic of Kenya and Commander-In-Chief 
of the Defence Forces, to mark the launch of the 
enhanced Nairobi Securities Exchange Market Place 
committed to 5-10 listings on the NSE. 
Further to this, the Exchange maintains membership 
in key organizations such as the African Securities 
Exchanges Association (ASEA), East African Securities 
Exchanges Association (EASEA), World Federation of 
Exchanges, Association of Futures Market and the 
United Nations-led SSE initiative. 
Additionally, through its Investment Challenge 
and Annual Charity Trading days the NSE is able 
to respond to the needs of the stakeholders and 
reinforce confidence in the  its brand.
Our Innovation
NSE continues to look for new ways to handle 
its operations and promote product uptake in 
the market. During the period under review NSE 
championed the following innovations; trading 
of shares using Safaricom’s bonga points, African 
Exchanges Linkage Programme, introduction of 
block trading, signing of an MOU between NIFCA 
(Nairobi International Finance Centre) on Carbon 
Trading Rating, held its AGM online,  promotion of 
the uptake of day trading by extending the 100% 
waiver on all fees levied on such transactions and 
introduction of financial literacy programme for 
school going children. 
The Exchange remains committed to exploring 
other global disruptive technologies in a bid to 
enhance its offering to investors.  The NSE’s brand 
includes the technologies and systems in place and 
the intellectual know-how we need to facilitate an 
efficient and world-class market. The NSE brand 
relies on technology delivery and positive relations 
with our stakeholders. 
Our Talent (People)
NSE takes pride in its talented staff whose aggregated 
knowledge and experience enable the company to 
grow and achieve more. The NSE is a specialized 
organization requiring competent, motivated and 
diverse employees with specialist skills in financial 
markets technology, governance, risk and financial 
products trading.
We work to attract, develop and retain high caliber 
employees who are instrumental in the execution 
of our strategy and delivery of world-class markets.
Value Creation Process	

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
34
55%
45%
Total Number of Employees = 44
Value Creation Schedule
2022
2021
Variance
Sh ‘000
Sh ‘000
%
Revenue
642,764
714,267
(10.01%)
Stakeholder contribution
Taxes to Government
97,362
85,391
14.02%
Shareholders dividend paid
243,965
232,533
3.58%
Payment to suppliers
254,710
222,967 
14.24%
Human capital
177,359
171,841
3.21%
Note: Taxes to Government exclude VAT and withholding tax paid for supplier invoices
Value Creation Process (Continued)	

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
35
Vision
To be the leading 
exchange and the 
investment partner 
of choice through 
providing efficient 
investment and 
capital raising 
services in Africa 
and globally.
Mission
Linking capital to 
opportunity to 
enhance 
stakeholder value.
Our Core 
Values
Integrity
Excellence
Teamwork
Sustainability
Accountability
2020 - 2024 Strategic Direction
Innovation & Technology Driven Strategy
Strategy
Taking off: NSE 2020 - 2024 Strategic Intent
An ambitious journey towards 2024
Embark 
Together
Sustainable
Business 
Growth
Operational
Excellence
Strategic 
Partnerships 
People
Take Off As A 
Group
Fly As One
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
35

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
36
NSE 2020 - 2024 Strategy
Initiatives:
1. Improve Operational Efficiencies
2. Strengthen Enterprise Risk Management & 
Compliance
3. Develop NSE as a center of innovation 
4. Cost of optimization
5. Effective Market Oversight
Initiatives:
1. Strategic acquisitions
2. Strengthen beneficial alliances
3. Targeted Advocacy
4. Strengthen NSE brand perception and enhance 
customer focus
5. Establish partnership with the (Minist y of ICT) and 
Government echnology firms
Initiatives:
Initiatives:
1. Enhance Market 
Liquidity
2. Increase number of 
listed companies
3. Develop 
Derivatives and 
support growth of the  
Commodities Market
4. Diversification of 
revenue 
stream;Trading Non 
trading income
5. Improve local market 
participation 
6. Diversity distribution 
channels
1. Promote a high 
performance culture
2. Enhance employee 
engagement
3.Talent Development 
and succession
4. Promote diversity 
equality and inclusion 
Operational 
Excellence
Strategic 
Partnership
People
Sustainable 
Business 
Growth
Innovation & 
Technology - 
Driven Strategy  
Some of the key strategic achievements of the revised strategy in 2022 
included:
The NSE successfully conducted a review of its mid-term strategy and was able 
to formulate the following thematic areas:
	»
Market Capitalization: For the market capitalization of equities, we 
achieved a KES 1.99 Tn cap vs a target of KES 3.79 Tn, on the other hand, 
we were able to surpass the revised KES 2.17 Tn to achieve a bonds 
market cap of KES 3.66 Tn.
	»
Revenue: Our total revenue for the year 2022 was KES 642  Million FY 
2022 against a target of KES 726  Million.
	»
Cost-To-Income Ratio: The NSE Cost-To-Income ratio was at 83% at end 
of year 2022 against a target of 74%.
	»
Diversify the non-trading to trading revenue: Non-trading to trading 
income was edging closer to 55:45 ratio as it had progressed to a 41:59 
ratio despite a challenging year.
	»
Establish NSE as a listing authority by 2024: We are currently engaged 
with the relevant stakeholders on the same to develop enhanced 
regulatory and in-house frameworks and capacity building.
	»
Implementing the revise Public Offer Listings and Disclosure 
Regulations including powers to set its fees by 2024: An ongoing 
engagement with Capital Markets Authority to delegate and transition 
the necessary powers to the mandate of the NSE.
	»
Expand the business through strategic acquisitions which is ongoing.
	»
Improve our trading infrastructure by 2023 that was deferred to 
2024 due to the current low market conditions.
Some key market targets include:
1.	 An additional listing namely TransCentury – Rights Issue. 
2.	 Ceabud enrolled in the Ibuka program. 
3.	 Local Authorities Pension Trust and the Kenya Mortgage Refinance Company 
issued corporate bonds worth KES 6.9 Bn and KES 1.4 Bn respectively. 
4.	 There were 7 government bonds raising KES 272 Bn by end of year 2022, 
from tap sales to re-opening of bonds.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
37
2020 – 2024 Revised Strategy Implementation 
Status and the Key focus areas in 2023
1.	 We are in the fourth year of the 2020 – 2024 
Strategic Plan which is centered on 4 pillars – 
(i) Sustainable Business Growth; (ii) Strategic 
Partnership; (iii). Operational Excellence and, (iv) 
People.
2.	 In the last year, 2022, we achieved an average 
implementation of 78% with significant 
improvements in Strategic Partnership and 
Operational Excellence pillars.
3.	 There is a great focus to build on our Sustainable 
Business Growth pillar through initiatives such as 
enhancing market liquidity, increasing number of 
listed companies, growth of derivatives market, 
diversification of revenues and improving local 
market participation through introduction and 
development of new and existing distribution 
channels.
4.	 The market performance has been experiencing a 
bear run in the recent year’s due macroeconomic 
shocks, globally and locally such as inflation, 
currency fluctuations and geopolitical tensions. 
Additionally, the market fees have remained 
unchanged for the past 20+ years and are 
unequitable for the players but there are ongoing 
negotiations with the relevant authorities to 
address the same. 
5.	 In 2023, we will lay focus on growing the 
market size through increasing the number of 
listed large state and corporate institutions, 
cross-listings, and growth of our SME segment. 
Although, no listing was done in the year 2022, 
in 2023 there is commitment and an active 
partnership with the Government of Kenya 
through the Privatization Bill 2023 to ensure 
that there are at least 3 listings by end of year 
2023. This was affirmed by the Presidential visit 
to the exchange in October of 2022 where His 
Excellency President William Samoei Ruto EGH 
pledged to list 10 companies over the course of 
2023.
6.	 2023 will involve quality issuances for the 
market from the private sector as well as we 
are leveraging technology and innovative 
partnerships through our Ibuka platform as well 
as the unquoted securities platform that is set to 
provide great market liquidity.
7.	 With the current global depressed market 
conditions, we are awaiting publication of the 
new Privatization Bill 2023 by the National 
Treasury of Kenya that will unlock Government 
privatization and shareholding sell-down of 
State Owned Enterprises. This will allow us 
to leverage on the privatization effect to spur 
private listings in the market. 
8.	 We seek to offer alternative routes of capital 
raising for the Government to reduce interest 
rates and explore different types of bond 
securities through the issuance and reissuance 
of bonds. 
9.	 Affordable housing will deliver immense value to 
the Nairobi Securities Exchange as it promises to 
bring 4 listings to the market by the end of year. 
Already, 1 REIT by the lap-trust fund has already 
been onboarded and is set to be launched on 
the 22nd of March 2023.
10.	In addition, we expect better uptake of our new 
products which includes derivatives, exchange 
traded, real estate instruments, unquoted 
securities platform and place special focus 
on ensuring uninterrupted market availability 
to investors and remote access by trading 
participants, cost optimization as well as 
protecting the health and safety of our staff and 
market players. 
11.	Our consistent and targeted advocacy has 
enabled us to onboard numerous technology 
partners with whom we are currently exploring 
ways to improve on current technology as well 
as discover new and innovative technologies. 
We are already setting up a framework for a 
special board for fintech’s for Ibuka, to provide 
fresh value to our Ibukees.
12.	NSE is leveraging on adoption of various 
technology-enabled platforms to widen its 
investor reach in order to grow our retail 
investor footprint. The NSE will also continue 
to diligently participate in several engagements 
through various platforms to enrich investor 
knowledge on opportunities in the market 
during this period. 
13.	Carbon credit trading is a major product that is 
set to be a major boost to the NSE through this 
year. Currently, we have signed an MOU with a 
technology partner to explore the carbon credit 
markets. Being in the market development phase, 
we are working with development partners to 
build capacity and skill of the organization.  
NSE 2020 - 2024 Strategy (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
38
www.nse.co.ke
Trading and investments
Trading Systems and Technology
Corporate Governance
Risk and compliance
ESG
The NSE Offers Premium 
Training & Consulting
Services in:

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
39
The NSE remained resilient despite tough global 
economic conditions occasioned by geo-political 
tensions in Europe which led to trade disruptions 
and increased supply chain constraints. The 
sanctions imposed on Russia had a major impact on 
global macros mainly exchange rates, supply chains, 
inflation and the capital markets.
Global economic activity experienced a broad-
based 
and 
sharper-than-expected 
slowdown, 
with inflation higher than seen in several decades 
tightening financial conditions in around the world, 
and the lingering COVID-19 pandemic all weigh 
heavily on the outlook.
Estimated GDP growth in 2022 was 6%. The 
Kenyan shilling continued to weaken in the year 
Mbithe Muema
Chief Business Officer
2022 evidenced by erosion of the Kenyan shilling 
amongst major currencies. According to the IMF, 
Global growth was forecast to slow from 6.0 percent 
in 2021 to 3.2 percent in 2022 and 2.7 percent in 
2023. This is the weakest growth profile since 2001 
except for the global financial crisis and the acute 
phase of the COVID-19 pandemic. Global inflation 
was forecast to rise from 4.7 percent in 2021 to 
8.8 percent in 2022 but to decline to 6.5 percent in 
2023 and to 4.1 percent by 2024.
The African Exchanges Linkages Project (AELP) in 
June 2022 admitted 2 exchanges - Bostwana Stock 
Exchange and Ghana Stock Exchange in addition to 
Egypt, Morocco, Mauritius Nigeria, Kenya, BVRM 
and South Africa. In November 2022, the project 
officially launched with cross-border trading going 
live.
In 2022, Management continued to prioritise key 
pillars on the Strategic plan. This report will aim 
to outline progress, achievements and innovative 
solutions under way during the period under review. 
Some of the initiatives employed during the year 
include the Inaugural NSE Chief Financial Officer 
(CFO) Conference, day trading and derivatives.
Main Board Listings
Management continued to engage both the private 
and public sector in an effort to seek new quality 
listings. Private sector pipeline for listing presented 
a promising outlook for 2023 based on ongoing 
engagements with multiple corporates and MSME’s. 
Management through continuous engagements 
with the National Treasury and County governments 
sought to support the government in meeting 
its 
funding 
obligations 
through 
the 
capital 
markets. Affordable housing presented abundant 
opportunities for investors to contribute to the 
growth of the housing market through issuances of 
REITS.
Corporate Bond Market
Appetite for corporate bonds was robust during the 
year 2021 following the success of the issuances in 
that year. However there were no new issuances in 
year 2022. 
Capitalising on opportunities 
within the Unquoted Securities 
Market in Kenya
The Unquoted Securities Platform was launched in 
2021 and has registered a cumulative turnover of 
Kshs. 1,035 Million since launch. 
Cash and Derivatives Market Report for the Year Ended 31 
December 2022

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
40
The year saw an improved turnover of Kshs. 647 
Million compared to Kshs. 388 Million in the 
previous year indicating a growing appetite for 
private investments using the platform. The Acorn 
I-REIT saw a 1.3% net asset value growth since 
December 2021 while the Acorn D-REIT has saw 
a 15.8% jump in NAV over the same period. The 
property developer also held a rights issue adding 
an additional 8,401,245 units to their D-REIT and 
offered 134Million units to the I-REIT. 
The platform has enabled issuers to unlock liquidity 
and raise private capital more easily. Issuer interest 
is growing on this platform with a healthy pipeline 
of new issuances expected in 2023
The Ibuka Program Strategy
In offering a capital markets governance and 
financing solution, the NSE developed Ibuka, an 
incubation and acceleration program to prepare 
companies for listing and access to other capital 
raising options available through the NSE. 
The companies hosted on the Ibuka program enjoy 
tailor made advisory services targeted to restructure 
various aspects of their business as they prepare for 
future capital raises on the debt or equity markets 
at NSE.
In the financial year, Management admitted one 
company on the program i.e., Ceabud Engineering.
Currently, the program has been restructured to 
ensure that a diagnostic process for purposes of 
evaluation of potential Ibuka companies is instituted 
this year to ease the administrative processes and 
accelerate uptake by more firms. The same platform 
will link financiers to the companies and give 
advisors opportunities to structure the deals
Exchange Traded Funds 
The NewGold ETF saw sharp increases in trading 
activity in Q2 2022 as investors sought out gold as 
a safe haven. This reflects investor confidence in 
the asset’s ability to support portfolio diversification 
and hedging amidst geo-political tensions in Europe.
As a result of the growing demand for the NewGold 
Etf the issuer listed an additional 400, 000 units in 
the year. This year, ETF has seen increased demand 
with a total of 827,400 units traded in 2022 
compared to 75,800 units traded in the previous 
year, representing a 992% increase in volumes. 
The NewGold ETF has equally gained a 15% in 
value between 2021 and 2022 tracking the global 
gold commodity prices registering a turnover of 
Kshs. 1,280 Million in 2022 compared to Kshs. 139 
Million in 2021.
Real Estate Investment Trusts
Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) experienced 
momentum in the year under review with the CPF 
REIT releasing its offer memorandum in late 2022 
with the expectation of coming to market in early 
2023. Management continued to engage with 
property developers and pension funds to consider 
taking up REITs. Management also engaged with 
sector Associations and Regulators to consider the 
formation of a national REIT structure.
Derivatives
During the year Management was able to onboard 
Scopemarkets (SCFM) as a trading participant to 
open up the market to to additional investors. 
Management continues to engage both local and 
international participants with the addition of a 
new clearing member expected in 2023. The active 
members in the market include AIB-AXYS Africa 
Ltd (AIBC), Genghis Capital Ltd (GENC), Kingdom 
Securities Ltd (KING), Standard Investment Bank 
(STIB), Sterling Capital Ltd (STER), Faida Investment 
Bank Ltd (FINB), NCBA Investment Bank Ltd (NICS), 
EGM Securities Ltd (EGMS), and NCBA Custody 
(NICC) all trading under the Co-operative Bank (K) 
Ltd as their clearing bank. 2022 saw reduced market 
activity across the equities and derivatives markets 
due to ongoing geopolitical tensions as well as the 
rising cost of lending around the world. 
Cash and Derivatives Market Report for the Year Ended 31 
December 2022 (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
41
Cash and Derivatives Market Report for the Year Ended 31 
December 2022 (Continued)
The market turnover stood at Kshs. 125 Million with 
a total of 4,101 contracts traded compared to Kshs 
289 Million and 7,354 contracts traded the previous 
year.
Management noted that the market follows the 
global trend where trading is heavily retail oriented 
with a strong preference for trading single stock 
futures. The majority of trades have also been 
speculative in nature with interest growing from 
investors looking to hedge their portfolios from 
increased volatility across the different asset classes.
Management has placed at the forefront of its 
strategy initiatives to grow capacity amongst 
investors by hosting virtual webinars, hosting 
investor and an professional training and producing 
training material to increase uptake in the Derivatives 
market as a core investment option.
Outlook for the year 2023
Management is keen on increasing the number of 
companies raising equity and debt capital through 
the market. Management will continue to work 
towards working with clients to close current 
transactions as well as continue to build a strong 
pipeline for business growth in the year 2023.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
42
Opportunities 
Creating
Investment
We offer Investors access to Kenya’s and East 
Africa’s economic growth through exposure 
to leading companies across various sectors 
of the economy. 
www.nse.co.ke

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
43
OPERATIONS AND IT 
DEPARTMENT
The Operations and IT Department is tasked with 
the objective of ensuring that the NSE continues to 
meet its main mandate of providing a platform for 
trading listed securities. 
The Department supports this noble objective by 
enabling a world class trading and broker back 
office systems as well as packaging the market data 
for consumption by various stakeholders to make 
rational investment decisions.
David Wainaina
Chief Operating Officer
The financial year under review presented a number 
of opportunities.  It was the year that the Department 
activated its cloud strategy with one of the core 
systems i.e the broker back office being hosted in 
the cloud. This is aligned to our 2020-2024 strategic 
plan where operation excellence is a key focus. 
From a system  perspective  the  Department conti-
nued to manage a world class equities infrastructure 
provided by the millennium IT which is part of the 
London stock Exchange Group. The system was 
extremely resilient devoid of any system issues. It 
is worth noting that the market achieved 100% 
system availability though out the year. The system 
has a world class disaster recovery site guided by 
internal best standards expected of such a facility. 
On the bonds section, the Department in liaison 
with the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) was able to 
commence the implementation of an interface 
to support secondary trading of bonds in the new 
depository by the CBK. Once the new CDS is rolled 
out the NSE will continue supporting a transparent 
secondary market for fixed income securities 
including Government bonds. It is worth noting 
that in the year under review the government was 
able to access Kshs 511.37 Billion  though domestic 
borrowing. The secondary market on the NSE was a 
critical facet to this success given that investors had 
the flexibility to exit or buy more at the Exchange. 
Finally on the information services front the team 
embarked on marketing reliable and credible market 
data in NSE possession. This was done at local and 
international level resulting to a 78% growth in data 
revenue from Kshs 51 Million to Kshs 93 Million. We 
noted the increased appetite by data consumers 
to assist in making investment decisions. This was 
channeled through licensed data vendors as well as 
the NSE Website.
In conclusion the Department is bullish that 
building on the 2022 foundation we expect better 
performance in 2023 especially as the economy 
recovers from external shocks experienced in the 
year under review. 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
44
www.nse.co.ke
The NSE 
Sustainability
Report 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
45
SUSTAINABILITY 
AT THE EXCHANGE
 
GEOFFREY ODUNDO
Chief Executive, NSE 
This year’s sustainability statement showcases the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange’s (NSE) commitment 
to a sustainable global economy and its progress 
in achieving long-term value through sustainable 
development. We have made significant strides in 
our sustainability journey, which is deeply embedded 
in our business model and transformation roadmap. 
In 2022, we solidified our role as a regulator and 
standard-setter, guiding companies to comply with 
regulations that ensure stable, transparent, and fair 
markets. As the market grapples with emerging ESG 
disclosure and management requirements, the NSE 
plays a vital role in navigating these demands.
We recognize that collaboration with stakeholders 
is crucial to promoting responsible practices and 
driving lasting positive change throughout our 
value chain. Our continued collaboration on joint 
projects aims to engage, train, and empower the 
communities connected to our operations and 
activities in the region.
GRI Standards Alignment: The NSE has embraced 
the GRI Standards, which provide a robust framework 
for reporting economic, environmental, and social 
impacts. Our sustainability reporting adheres to the 
principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, 
sustainability context, and completeness.
Material Topics: After conducting a comprehensive 
assessment of our impacts and stakeholder 
expectations, we have identified the following 
material topics: 
1.	 Environmental Stewardship (GRI 303, 305, 
306): We are committed to minimizing our 
environmental 
footprint 
through 
energy-
efficient measures, waste reduction strategies, 
and 
responsible 
resource 
consumption 
practices. Our focus areas include energy 
consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, waste 
management, and water conservation.
2.	 Social Responsibility (GRI 401, 403, 405): We 
prioritize the well-being of our employees by 
promoting diversity, equality, and professional 
growth. We engage in community development 
initiatives, supporting education, healthcare, 
and social progress. Our key areas of focus 
include 
employee 
well-being, 
diversity 
and inclusion, community investment, and 
philanthropic activities.
3.	 Ethical Governance (GRI 205, 206, 419): 
We uphold the highest standards of ethical 
conduct, transparency, and accountability. 
Our corporate governance practices ensure 
adherence to legal and regulatory requirements. 
Our 
focus 
areas 
include 
anti-corruption 
measures, board governance, stakeholder 
engagement, and compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
45

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
46
4.	 Market Integrity (GRI 102, 205, 301): We 
maintain a fair, transparent, and efficient 
marketplace, upholding market integrity. Our 
key areas of focus include investor education, 
market regulations, listing standards, and 
surveillance mechanisms to prevent fraudulent 
activities.
Promoting Gender Equality and 
Women Empowerment
The NSE is at the forefront of promoting gender 
equality and women’s empowerment in Kenya. 
We advocate for more women leaders in both 
boardrooms and management positions in the 
corporate sector. In 2022, we empowered women
In line with our commitment to sustainability and 
driving positive change, the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange (NSE) remains dedicated to promoting 
gender equality and empowering women in Kenya. 
We recognize the importance of ensuring women’s 
full and effective participation and providing equal 
opportunities for leadership.
Throughout 2022, the NSE took significant steps 
to advance gender diversity and empower women 
in various sectors. One notable initiative was the 
annual “Ring the Bell for Gender Equality” event, 
which celebrated women in leadership roles and 
raised awareness about the significance of achieving 
gender equality, even in the face of the challenges 
posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Furthermore, the NSE implemented programs such 
as Ibuka and the Growth Enterprise Market Segment 
to enhance accessibility to capital market services 
for female entrepreneurs of all ages. By supporting 
and enabling women in entrepreneurship, we 
aim to foster economic growth, innovation, and 
inclusivity.
Commitment to De-carbonization 
In pursuit of Sustainable Development Goal 9, which 
focuses on industry, innovation, and infrastructure, 
the NSE actively engaged in discussions surrounding 
green bond issuances by the Kenyan Government. 
We advocated for the listing of the government’s 
debut Sovereign Green Bond and collaborated with 
County Governments to list social and green bonds 
to support various developmental projects. This 
approach emphasizes the importance of building 
resilient infrastructure, promoting sustainable 
industrialization, and fostering innovation.
To ensure sustainable consumption and production 
patterns, in line with Goal 12, the NSE offered 
sector-specific training on environmental, social, 
and governance (ESG) disclosures among listed 
companies. As a proud participant in the growing 
number of exchanges publishing ESG reporting 
guidance, we recognize the significance of 
comprehensive corporate information for investors 
seeking a holistic understanding of a company’s 
material issues. By promoting sustainable practices 
and integrating sustainability information into 
reporting cycles, we contribute to creating a more 
sustainable business ecosystem.
Climate change remains a global challenge that 
requires urgent action. Aligned with Goal 13, the 
NSE has prioritized improving education, awareness, 
and capacity building on climate change mitigation, 
adaptation, impact reduction, and early warning. 
We have actively developed green finance initiatives 
within the market and raised awareness about the 
importance of a just transition toward a net-zero 
economy. By collaborating with stakeholders, we 
strive to drive meaningful change and contribute to 
global efforts aimed at addressing climate change.
Strategic partnerships
The 
NSE 
understands 
the 
importance 
of 
partnerships and collaboration in achieving the 
Sustainable Development Goals, as highlighted in 
Goal 17. As an active member of the Sustainable 
Stock Exchange Initiative’s (SSE) network, we work 
towards enhancing the sustainability of financial 
markets. Our collaboration with the SSE and our 
contributions to the initiative demonstrate our 
commitment to building a new kind of finance that 
supports a new world view. 
Additionally, we partnered with AIB-AXYS to 
launch the University Stock Market Challenge, an 
educational program that aimed to increase financial 
literacy among youth and enhance their knowledge 
of capital markets. Through these partnerships, we 
aim to mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, 
technologies, and financial resources to support 
the achievement of sustainable development goals 
in Kenya and beyond.
Our contribution to the SDGs
The 
NSE 
recognizes 
the 
interconnectedness 
between our sustainability efforts and the SDGs, 
a globally accepted framework for achieving a 
more sustainable future. We have aligned our 
sustainability initiatives with the following SDGs: 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
46

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
47
 
GOAL 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. We 
remains committed to promoting gender equality and empowering women 
in the capital market and beyond. We recognize that gender equality is not 
only a fundamental human right but also a driver of social and economic 
progress. Through various initiatives and partnerships, we strive to create a 
more inclusive and equitable environment for women
SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth: We promote inclusive 
economic growth by providing a safe and inclusive work environment and 
supporting job creation through a vibrant capital market.
SDG 9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure: We foster innovation and 
contribute to the development of robust financial infrastructure, enhancing 
Kenya’s economic resilience.
SDG12: Responsible Consumption and Production: We actively encourage 
sustainable practices and responsible consumption within our operations 
and engage with our listed companies to integrate sustainability into their 
operations.
SDG 13: Climate Action. The Nairobi Securities Exchange recognizes the 
urgent need to address climate change and its impacts. We are committed 
to taking proactive measures to mitigate climate risks and promote climate 
action within our operations and across the capital market ecosystem. 
Our focus areas include reducing greenhouse gas emissions, promoting 
renewable energy investments, and encouraging climate-related disclosure 
and reporting by listed companies. Through collaboration with stakeholders, 
we aim to contribute to the global efforts of limiting global warming and 
building a more resilient and sustainable future
SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals The Nairobi Securities Exchange 
acknowledges the importance of partnerships and collaboration in 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. We actively engage with 
various stakeholders, including regulators, listed companies, investors, 
civil society organizations, and industry associations, to foster dialogue, 
exchange best practices, and drive collective action towards sustainable 
development. 
By forging strong partnerships, we can leverage diverse expertise and resources 
to address common challenges, promote sustainable finance, and contribute to 
the broader socio-economic development goals of Kenya and the region.
Aligning our sustainability efforts with the SDGs 5, 8, 9, 12, 13 and 17 and 
adopting the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, the NSE reaffirms 
its commitment to driving positive change and contributing to a sustainable 
future. We continue to work towards creating value for our stakeholders while 
advancing sustainability, resilience, and inclusive growth in the capital market 
ecosystem and broader society. Together, we can build a more sustainable and 
prosperous future for present and future generations.
The NSE acknowledges that sustainable development requires continuous 
monitoring, evaluation, and improvement of our own practices. We have 
established robust monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to assess our 
progress in implementing sustainable development initiatives. Through regular 
impact assessments and stakeholder engagement, we gain valuable insights and 
feedback that inform our future strategies and actions.
In our commitment to transparency and accountability, the NSE will publish an 
annual sustainability report, detailing our performance in environmental, social, 
and governance (ESG) areas. 
This report serves as a comprehensive account of our sustainability efforts 
and provides a platform for stakeholders to assess our progress and hold us 
accountable. We actively engage with investors, regulators, civil society 
organizations, and other stakeholders to promote dialogue and gather diverse 
perspectives on sustainability matters. In addition to our internal initiatives, the 
NSE actively participates in collaborative platforms and industry-wide initiatives 
aimed at advancing sustainable development. 
We engage with other stock exchanges, regulatory bodies, and international 
organizations to share best practices, leverage collective knowledge, and 
promote the adoption of sustainable business practices within the financial 
sector. Furthermore, the NSE recognizes the importance of fostering a culture of 
sustainability within our organization. We provide ongoing training and capacity 
building to our employees, enabling them to integrate sustainability principles 
into their day-to-day operations. By nurturing a sustainability mindset among 
our staff, we create a foundation for innovation, responsible decision-making, 
and long-term value creation.
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
47

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
48
Future outlook
Looking ahead, the NSE remains committed to 
driving sustainable development in Kenya’s capital 
market ecosystem. We will continue to collaborate 
with stakeholders, explore innovative solutions, and 
advocate for policies that promote sustainability, 
inclusivity, and resilience. Our goal is to be a 
catalyst for positive change, supporting Kenya’s 
sustainable development agenda and contributing to 
the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals.
We invite all stakeholders, including investors, 
issuers, regulators, civil society organizations, and 
individuals, to join us on this journey towards a more 
sustainable and prosperous future. Together, we can 
make a meaningful difference and create a world 
where economic growth goes hand in hand with 
social progress and environmental stewardship.
Thank you for your continued support and partnership 
in our sustainability endeavors.
Geoffrey Odundo
Chief Executive, NSE
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
48

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
49
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT
Overview
Corporate governance is at the heart of the structures and processes guiding 
the leadership of the Group. The Group has instituted systems to ensure that 
high standards of corporate governance are maintained at all levels of the 
organization and is in compliance with the requirements of all applicable 
laws and regulations including but not limited to the Capital Markets Act and 
regulations, rules and guidelines thereunder on Corporate Governance and the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) regulations, rules, policies and procedures.
The Role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible to the Group’s shareholders for the long-
term success of the Group and its strategic direction, its values and governance. 
It provides the leadership, integrity, enterprise and good judgment necessary to 
meet its business objectives within the framework of its internal controls while 
also discharging the Group’s obligations to its shareholders. 
The Key Responsibilities of the Board include: 
»	
To define and chart out the Group’s vision and mission. The Board has 
ultimate responsibility for the attainment of the Group’s vision;
»	
To set the strategy, approve business plans and annual budgets and any 
subsequent material changes in strategic direction;
»	
To monitor Management’s implementation of the strategic plans and 
financial objectives as defined by the Board;
»	
To define levels of materiality, reserving specific powers to itself and 
delegating other matters with the necessary written authority to 
Management;
»	
To ensure that the Group is managed with a view to ensuring that 
the Group is ethical in all its dealings and has put in place sustainable 
business practices	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	»
To ensure that procedures and processes are in place to protect the 
Group’s assets and reputation;
	»
To ensure compliance by the Group with all relevant laws and regulations, 
audit and accounting principles, and such other principles as may be 
established by the Board from time to time;
	»
To approve Terms of Reference of Board Committees and make 
appointments and changes in the composition of such Committees as 
are established from time to time;
	»
To identify key risks for the Group and establish mechanisms for 
managing or mitigating them;
	»
To set policies on internal controls and obtain regular assurance that the 
system is functioning effectively and is effective in managing risks;
	»
To appoint the Chief Executive and senior management staff; 
	»
To procure suitable external auditors for shareholder: and
	»
To exercise such other powers as are necessary to enforce the 
requirements of the Capital Markets Act and regulations and guidelines 
thereunder, the NSE’s Articles of Association and the internal regulations 
and rules governing the Group.
Division of Responsibilities
The Chairman and the Chief Executive are responsible for the sustainable 
operations of the Group. Their roles are separate, with each having distinct 
and clearly defined roles and responsibilities. The Chairman directs the Board’s 
business and acts as it’s facilitator and guide ensuring that the Board is effective 
in its tasks of setting and implementing the Group’s direction and strategy. The 
Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, for ensuring its effectiveness 
on all aspects of its role and for facilitating the productive contribution of all 
Directors. The Chairman sets the agenda for the Board meetings in consultation 
with the Chief Executive. The Chairman is accountable to the Board for leading 
the direction of the Group’s corporate and financial strategy and for the overall 
supervision of the policies, rules and regulations governing the Group.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
50
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the business of the Group. The 
Chief Executive enforces the provisions of the Capital Markets Act (the “Act”) 
and the rules of the Group and immediately reports any violations to the Board 
and the Capital Markets Authority (“CMA/Authority”) and ensures compliance 
with the requirements of the Act, and rules in operations, transactions and all 
affairs of the Group including listings and continuous reporting obligations of 
listed companies.
 
The Chief Executive is also responsible for the supervision of the trading 
activities of the Group and takes all necessary steps to maintain orderly and 
efficient trading and functioning of facilities, in accordance with the Group’s 
rules and as prescribed by the Act.
The Chief Executive reports periodically to the Board on all matters concerning 
the operation and affairs of the Group, attends all meetings of the Committees 
and provides technical input where necessary and promotes the objectives and 
functions of the Group. The Chief Executive also liaises with the Authority and 
its representatives in respect of administrative, regulatory and technical matters 
of the Group. The Chief Executive is also responsible for the stewardship of the 
Group’s assets and, jointly with the Chairman, for representation of the Group 
externally.
Board Composition
As at the date of this Integrated Annual Report, the Board of the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange Plc is constituted as follows:
a)	 Five (5) Independent and Non-Executive Directors;
b)	 Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Trading Participants;
c)	 Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Listed Companies; and
d)	 One (1) Executive Director.
Below is the current composition of the Board:
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Paul Mwai
Vice Chairman/Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director
Mr. John Niepold
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Michael Turner
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Stephen Chege
Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Donald Wangunyu
Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director
Ms. Risper Alaro
Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director
Ms. Isis Madison
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ms. Carol Kariuki
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo
Chief Executive
Board Committees
The Board established six (6) Board Committees with delegated authority to 
assist the Board effectively carry out its obligations. These Board Committees 
are:
a)
Finance and Strategy Committee
b)
Trading and Technology Committee
c)
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 
d)
Self-Regulatory Organization and Listing Committee (SROLC)
e)
Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital Committee 
f)
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 
Other than the Derivatives Market Oversight Committee and Trading and 
Technology Committee, both which have external resource persons, all other 
Committees are composed of Board members only.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
51
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
Board Committees (Continued)
At each ordinary Board meeting, the chairpersons of the Board Committees 
are required to report to the Board on the highlights of the deliberations of 
the Committees and to escalate to the Board all matters requiring the Board’s 
consideration and approval. 
The Board reviews the Committee composition every year to ensure that the 
Committees have suitable, appropriate and relevant skills required to effectively 
discharge the mandate of the Committees and the Board as a whole. The review 
also aids in incorporating into Committees any members who may have retired 
from the Board and also those who may join the Board in the course of the year. 
The Committee membership review took place in June 2022.
The Committee Terms of Reference are also reviewed on an annual basis to 
ensure that they are up to date to factor in any developments in the organizations 
strategic direction, operations, industry practice and global best practices. The 
annual review in 2022, took place in August 2022. 
Below is a summary of the mandates, functions, membership and activities of 
the various committees:
	»
Finance and Strategy Committee
The mandate of the Finance and Strategy Committee is to oversee the 
implementation of the NSE Strategy and strategic business development 
initiatives of the NSE, including training and to deal with all matters relating 
to the prudent financial management of the Group, which includes NSE PLC 
subsidiaries, including reviewing and advising on the financial statements 
and management accounts. The Committee also evaluates and advises on 
potential investment opportunities and also oversees procurement at the 
NSE to ensure compliance with the Procurement manuals and procedures.
	»
Trading and Technology Committee
The Trading and Technology Committee’s mandate is to assist the Board 
in relation to trading and markets operations, information technology 
infrastructure, data service provision and dissemination of market 
information to capital markets stakeholders and the general public. The 
Committee also monitors the state of technology capabilities within NSE 
and identifies and manages the associated risks and opportunities that 
could have significant impact on the organization’s operations
	»
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 
The mandate of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee is to monitor, 
review and make recommendations to the Board on the adequacy of NSE’s 
internal control, internal and external audit programs, risk management 
and compliance monitoring systems and to monitor the organization’s 
Corporate Governance practices including compliance with relevant laws, 
regulations and rules in respect of the Group’s business.
	»
Self-Regulatory Organization and Listing Committee (SROLC)
The mandate of the Self-Regulatory Organization and Listing Committee is 
to enforce the NSE Market Participants Business Conduct and Enforcement 
Rules, 2014, the Listing Rules, Continuous Listing Obligations Regulations, 
the Derivatives Rules, the NSE Trading Rules and any other Regulations or 
Rules of the NSE as are in force, as may be necessary for the maintenance 
of a fair and orderly market and to ensure compliance with any other 
capital market legislation and the enforcement powers of which have been 
delegated to the SROLC function of the NSE.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
52
	»
Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital Committee
The Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital Committee advises and assists the Board in effective discharge of its responsibilities in relation to the 
composition of the Board and its remuneration, and to establish a plan of continuity for the Chief Executive as appropriate. The Committee also advises, 
implements and assists the Board in effective discharge of its responsibilities in relation to Human Capital Management.
	»
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 
The Derivatives Market Oversight Committee advises the Board on the oversight of, and strategic issues relating to the NSE’s Derivatives Market and the 
Derivatives Clearing House including addressing conflict of interest matters regarding futures brokers, issues arising in the design of derivatives contracts and 
undertaking trading and surveillance functions.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
Board Committees (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
53
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2022
Director
Classification
Designation
 
Board
Finance & 
Strategy 
Committee
Trading and 
Technology 
Committee
Audit, Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee
Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
and Listing 
Committee
Remuneration, 
Nominating & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Derivatives 
Market 
Oversight 
Committee
K Kittony, EBS
Non-executive
Chairman -
Board
Membership

Attendance
7/7
P Mwai
Non-executive
Vice Chairman 
- Board 
Membership



*

Attendance
7/7
4/4
4/4
3/3
4/4
J Niepold**
Non-executive
Chairman - 
Audit, Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee
Membership

 ***
 ***
 ***
Attendance
3/3
2/2
2/2
2/2
M Turner
Non-executive
Chairman 
-  Finance 
& Strategy  
Committee
Membership




Attendance
6/7
4/4
5/5
4/4
D Wangunyu
Non-executive
Chairman – 
Trading and 
Technology 
Committee
Membership


 ***

Attendance
6/7
4/4
2/2
4/4
S Chege
Non-executive
Membership




Attendance
5/7
4/4
2/4
4/6
* 	
Stepped down from the Committee on 3rd June 2022	
**	
Appointed to the Board on 3rd June 2022
*** 	
Appointed to the Committee on 3rd June 2022

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
54
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD 
AND ATTENDED IN 2022 (Continued)
Director
Classification
Designation
Board
Finance & 
Strategy 
Committee
Trading and 
Technology  
Committee
Audit, Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee
Self-Regulatory 
Organization 
and Listing  
Committee
Remuneration, 
Nominating & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Derivatives 
Market 
Oversight 
Committee
C Kariuki*
Non-executive
Chairperson 
-Remuneration 
Nominating & Human 
Capital Committee
Membership

**
**
**
Attendance
2/3
2/2
2/2
2/2
P Vollant***
Non-executive
 
Membership
****
****
****
Attendance
4/4
2/2
1/2
3/3
R Alaro
Non-executive
Membership


****

Attendance
6/7
5/5
2/2
6/6
I Madison
Non-executive
 Chairperson – 
Self-Regulatory 
Organization & 
Listing Committee
Membership

****



Attendance
7/7
2/2
5/5
4/4
6/6
G Odundo
 
Chief Executive
Membership
Attendance
7/7
4/4
4/4
5/5
4/4
6/6
4/4
	
* Appointed to the Board on 3rd June 2022	
** Appointed to the Committee on 3rd June 2022
*** Stepped down from the Board on 3rd June 2022
**** Stepped down from the Committee on 3rd June 2022
The Chief Executive does not form the quorum for Board Committee meetings and attends by invitation.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
55
BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF 
MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN THE YEAR 2022
BOARD COMMITTEES WITH EXTERNAL RESOURCE 
PERSONS
1.	 	
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee
Name
Nature of Participation
Attendance
J Swai
Chairperson 
3/4
E Kigen
Member
4/4
A Mulisa
Member
4/4
2.	 	
Trading and Technology Committee
Name
Nature of participation
 Attendance
J Waiguru
Member
4/4
E Kihanda
Member
4/4
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE FACT SHEET 
 
Number of Board Members
10
Number of Independent Non-Executive Directors
5
Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Trading Participants
2
Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Listed Companies
2
Number of Executive Directors
1
Number of women on the Board
3
Separate Chairman and CEO
YES
Terms of Reference for Board Committees
YES
Independent Audit Committee
YES
Number of financial experts on Audit Committee
3
Number of Board Meetings held in 2022
7
Number of Annual General Meetings in 2022
1
Re-election of Directors in accordance with Articles of Association
YES
Board Induction Programs conducted
YES
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
56
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
a)	 Share capital
The authorized and issued share capital of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC consists of only ordinary shares as disclosed in note 24 to the financial statements.
b)	 Top 20 Shareholders at 31 December 2022
No  Shareholder
Number of shares
%
1.	
Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE004468
41,764,400
16.04
2.	
Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE22446
27,115,973
10.41
3.	
Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE003414
14,356,494
5.51
4.	
Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030823
12,523,399
4.81
5.	
Stanbic Nominees Ltd AC NR1031436
12,071,233
4.64
6.	
The Investor Compensation Fund Board
8,750,000
3.36
7.	
The Permanent Secretary to The Treasury
8,750,000
3.36
8.	
Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE22816
7,247,499
2.78
9.	
Sterling Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.69
10.	 Nyaga Stock Brokers Ltd
7,000,000
2.69
11.	 Discount Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.69
12.	 ABC Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.69
13.	 Kingdom Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.69
14.	 Renaissance Capital (Kenya) Limited
7,000,000
2.69
15.	 Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1031142
6,879,090
2.64
16.	 Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030824
4,567,600
1.75
17.	 Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Limited
4,300,000
1.65
18.	 Africa Allied investors Ltd
4,236,300
1.63
19.	 NCBA Investment Bank
3,500,000
1.34
20.	  Old Mutual Securities Ltd 
2,215,700
0.85
___________
_________
Top 20 shareholders
200,277,688
76.91
Others
60,114,033
23.09
___________
_________
Total issued shares
260,391,721
100
==========
========

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
57
c)	 Distribution of Shareholders at 31 December 2022
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of
 shares
%
Less than 500
3,217
553,063
0.21
501 – 5,000
9,207
12,348,595
4.74
5,001 – 10,000
649
4,713,076
1.81
10,001 – 100,000
673
17,287,955
6.64
100,001 – 1,000,000
54
14,742,711
5.66
Above 1,000,000
27
210,746,321
80.93
______
__________
________
Total 
13,827
260,391,721
100
=====
=========
=======
d)	 Shareholder Analysis by Domicile at 31 December 2022
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Individual investors
Local
 13,015 
 37,681,045 
14.47
East African
 88 
 282,271 
0.11
Foreign
 110 
 5,355,031 
2.06
______
_________
______
13,213
43,318,347
16.64
______
_________
______
Institutional investors
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of 
shares
%
Local
595
86,839,817
33.35
East African
5
3,768
-
Foreign
14
130,229,789
50.01
_______
__________
______
614
217,073,374
83.36
_______
__________
______
Total
13,827
260,391,721
100
======
=========
=====
e)	 Directors Holding Shares at 31 December 2022
Number of 
shares
%
Mr. Geoffrey Odundo
154,482
0.00
Mr. Stephen Chege
15,467
0.00
________
_______
Total
169,949
0.00
=======
======
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued)	 	
	
	
	
CAPITAL STRUCTURE (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
58
Highlights
NSE introduces New Single Stock Futures on 
the NEXT Derivatives Market
The NSE introduced additional single stock futures on the NSE Derivatives Market on 
May 19th 2022. The addition brings the total number of single stock futures offered on 
the market to ten.
The addition expands the range of securities offered and provides investors with a 
broader universe of single stock futures to trade. The new single stock futures added to 
the derivatives market are; 
1.	  NCBA Group Plc (NCBA) 
2.	 The Co-operative Bank of Kenya 
3.	 Standard Chartered Bank Kenya 
4.	 I&M Group Plc (IMHP) 
The addition of new single stock futures is a significant step in the development of the 
NEXT Derivatives Market and the advancement of the Capital Markets ecosystem in 
Kenya. The NEXT Derivatives Market represents our continued commitment to offering 
investors a wide range of innovative solutions that provide new avenues for the efficient 
deployment of capital and enhancement of returns.
Single stock futures give investors exposure to the price movements of specific stocks 
and can be used to protect existing stock portfolios (hedging) or to speculate and profit 
from market movements. Single stock futures only require a small deposit upfront 
equivalent to 10% to 20% of the value of the transaction and also attract low trading 
fees (0.17%) thus giving investors maximum capital efficiency and flexibility.
NSE Hosts Inaugural Conference for Finance 
Leaders in Kenya 
The NSE  hosted the inaugural NSE CFO Conference on June 21, 2022. The conference 
brought together finance leaders from leading companies in Kenya and the region to 
deliberate on equity and debt financing opportunities provided by public capital markets 
to fund the growth and expansion of companies in Kenya and the region.
 The NSE CFO conference enlightened finance leaders on favourable funding models that 
Kenyan companies can adopt to accelerate their growth whilst cushioning themselves 
from the challenging operating environment. 
The conference equally offered insights on emerging issues such as Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) matters that continue to influence capital allocation decisions by 
investors as well as other developments including Green Bonds, Real Estate Investment 
Trusts and the Unquoted Securities Platform. 
Finance leaders have a more critical role to play in preparing for short-term and long-
term financing related needs of companies in order to mitigate risks and propel growth.
 NSE Chief Executive Mr. Geoffrey Odundo (Left) and NSE Vice Chairperson Mr. Paul Mwai (Right:) makes 
remarks during the NSE CFO conference

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
59
Highlights (Continued)
NSE partners with Risk Insights to enhance 
Sustainability
The NSE PLC and Risk Insights announced launch of their partnership to enhance 
sustainability among Kenyan companies on September  15th 2022 through provision of 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) . 
Sustainability has undoubtedly become a business imperative: from strategy to 
transformation to reporting. Investors and other stakeholders are looking for companies 
with a robust approach to ESG which makes credible ESG ratings across the African 
continent important to assist stakeholders in their sustainability decision making. 
NSE PLC through its strategy aims to create value through ESG initiatives and green 
investments and is well-placed to support businesses and other organizations with their 
ESG efforts and initiatives, unlocking value for clients, shareholders, stakeholders, and 
the wider society. 
Through this partnership, the NSE PLC will be using Risk Insights’ ESG GPS suite of products 
to access the underlying ESG GPS ratings reports and leverage ESG GPS database to 
support companies on their ESG journey to improve their ESG transformation strategies, 
disclosure and performances.
The partnership will also enable listed companies align as much as possible with  existing 
sustainability standards enabling them with global standards and metrics. The advanced 
data analytics now available at NSE will help  companies know if they are meeting their 
ESG goals and make necessary interventions. 
NSE Admits Private Wealth Limited as an 
Authorised Securities Dealer
The NSE   admitted Private Wealth Capital Limited (PWCL) as an Authorized Securities 
Dealer (ASD) for fixed income securities listed on September 19th , 2022.The admission 
followed the firm’s approval to operate as an ASD by the Capital Markets Authority. 
The admission makes PWCL the first non-bank ASD in Kenya and subsequently enabled 
the firm provide domestic and international institutional and individual investors with 
bond brokerage services and market liquidity in the secondary bond market for Kenya 
shilling Government Bonds, Kenya Government Eurobonds and listed corporate bonds. 
PWCL is a leading investment advisory firm offering services in public and private equity 
and debt capital markets. The PWCL team, which is a blend of veteran fixed income 
market dealers and new entrants, has extensive and diverse experience spanning over 
55 years. 
His Excellency Hon. Dr. William Samoei Ruto 
PhD, C.G.H. makes his Maiden Visit to the NSE 
His Excellency Hon. Dr. William Samoei Ruto PhD, C.G.H.  President of the republic of 
Kenya made his maiden visit to the NSE during the Bell ringing Ceremony to mark the 
launch of the enhanced NSE Market Place held on 11th of October 2022. 
During his visit, H.E the President committed to revitalize the capital markets by 
embarking on the privatization of between five to ten State Owned Enterprise. 
The President equally made the following key pronouncements and orders that seek to 
accelerate the growth of Kenya’s Capital market. 
1.	 Review of the privatization law to facilitate the efficient listing of State Owned 
Enterprises. 
2.	 Ordered the development of a framework that places investor protection 
- including the enhancement of the investor compensation fund, investor 
education and strict enforcement of compliance by market intermediaries - at 
the centre of the re-energized capital market.
3.	 Ordered the NSE to invest in developing a mobile application to help Kenyans 
participate in the capital markets with greater convenience, thereby making the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange a Securities Exchange of the people, by the people 
and for the people.
4.	 Challenged the private sector to reciprocate the Government’s efforts to 
accelerate privatization and deepen the capital markets by offering more 
companies to be listed. 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
60
HE Hon. Dr. William Samoei Ruto PhD, (centre) Receives a gift from the NSE Chief Executive, Mr. Geoﬀrey 
Odundo (Right) Joined by the NSE Chairman Mr. Kiprono Kittony (Left) during the launch of the Enhanced  
NSE market place
HE Hon. Dr. William Samoei Ruto PhD, (2nd Right) participates in a panel discussion with other industry 
leaders during the launch of the Enhanced NSE market place
HE Hon. Dr. William Samoei Ruto PhD, (3rd right) together with HE Hon. Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua 
(Right) enjoys a light moment as he observes execution of a live trade during the launch of the Enhanced 
NSE market place
HE Hon. Dr. William Samoei Ruto PhD, (Centre) is joined by HE Hon.  Rigathi Gachagua, (Left) and NSE 
Chairman Mr. Kiprono Kittony (Right) as he rings the bell to mark the launch of the Enhanced  NSE market 
place.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
61
 NSE Hosts a Roundtable Forum with Moodys
The NSE  and Moody’s Investors Services hosted an exclusive roundtable event 
at the NSE.  The event brought together business leaders to exchange alongside 
Moody’s analyst’s and Senior Management from the NSE on various issues including 
financing options and liquidity risk ahead of the 2024 Eurobond maturity, fiscal 
risks and debt sustainability, the impact of higher rates and inflation for Kenyan 
banks, ESG reports and ratings among others
Participants from the NSE Plc and Moodys during the round table forum 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
61

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
62
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
REPORT
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT
Statement of Group’s policy on directors’ 
remuneration 
a) 	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
The Board establishes and approves formal and transparent remuneration 
policies to attract and retain both executive and non-executive Board members. 
These policies clearly state remuneration elements such as Directors’ fees and 
attendance allowances that are competitive and in line with the industry. Non-
Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every meeting attended. 
They are not eligible for provident fund membership. 
The Company does not grant any personal loans, guarantees, share options or 
long-term incentives to its non-executive Directors. The company has taken 
out insurance covers for the non-executive Directors covering Directors and 
Officers liability insurance cover and group personal accident covering death, 
permanent total disability and medical expenses.
The Chief Executive is the only executive director on the Board and the company 
has in place a remuneration policy which is aimed at ensuring compensation is 
competitive and aligned to the company’s strategic objectives. The Executive 
Director’s remuneration and benefits consists of: -
 
»	
A monthly salary determined on appointment.  
»	
An annual bonus based on the performance of the company, individual 
performance and general inflation considerations.
»	
Contributory staff provident scheme
»	
Non-cash benefits relating to a company-maintained vehicle and 
insurance cover.
There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration policy during 
the year 2022.
b) 	 NSE Clear Limited
A managing director or other executive officer shall receive such remuneration 
(whether by way of salary, commission or participation in profits, or partly in 
one way and partly in another) as the directors may determine.
There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration policy during 
the year 2022. 
c) 	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE 
Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF)
In accordance with the Trust Deed of the Funds, the Board of Directors of NSE 
Clear Limited appoints the trustees of the Fund subject to approval by the CMA. 
The number of trustees is set at a minimum of Three (3).  Any person, whether or 
not domiciled, resident or carrying on business or in the case of a body corporate 
carrying on business in Kenya may be appointed and hold office as a trustee.
There were no substantial changes to the trustees’ remuneration policy during 
the year 2022.
Contract of service
a) 	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
In accordance with Article 93 of the Articles  of Association of the Company, 
unless and until otherwise from time to time determined by an ordinary 
resolution of the Company, but always subject to the provisions of the Kenyan 
Companies Act (the Act) and the Capital Markets Act (CMA) regulations, the 
number of Directors (including the Chief Executive and excluding alternates) 
shall not be less than Seven (7) and not more than Eleven (11) in number and 
shall be elected in accordance with the Act, the Capital Markets Act and the 
Company’s Articles of Association.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
63
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
REPORT (Continued)
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued)
Contract of service (Continued)
a) 	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (Continued) 
Two Directors are elected by the members from among or to represent the 
trading participants and a further two Directors are elected by the members 
from among nominees of companies listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
to represent the said listed companies. Any other directors are elected by the 
members in accordance with the Companies Act provided that at all times at 
least one third of the Directors must be non-executive Directors.
If at any time the number of Directors falls below the minimum number fixed 
by or in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, the remaining 
Directors may act for the purpose of convening a general meeting or for the 
purpose of bringing the number of Directors to such minimum, and for no other 
purpose.
The Non-Executive Directors are not under contract but are subject to retirement 
by rotation at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). CMA regulations provide for 
fixed terms of office for the company’s Chairman and Chief Executive, which shall 
include a maximum term of office of two consecutive years for the Chairman 
and four years renewable once for the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive’s contract within the period under review is for the second 
term for a Four (4) year’s period running from 1 March 2020. Under the terms 
of the contract, either party may, not less than six months to the expiry of this 
contract, notify the other of their intention not to extend the contract, otherwise 
the contract shall be automatically renewed for a further final period of four 
years. Either Party may also terminate the Agreement without assigning any 
reasons, at any time, by giving to the other not less than six months’ notice in 
writing, or six months’ salary in lieu of notice, at the end of which the Agreement 
shall determine. The Chief Executive’s contract was renewed for one more year 
from 2 March 2023.
b) 	 NSE Clear Limited
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles), the 
directors have power at any time, and from time to time, to appoint any person 
to be a director, either to fill a casual vacancy, or as an addition to the existing 
directors, but so that the total number of directors shall not at any time exceed 
the number fixed in accordance with the Articles. Any director so appointed 
shall hold office until he is removed or his office is vacated, in each case in 
accordance with these Articles.
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of their body to the 
office of managing director, or to any other executive office under the Company, 
for such period and on such terms as they think fit, and, subject to the terms of 
any agreement entered into in any particular case, may revoke such appointment. 
The appointment of such managing director or other executive officer shall be 
automatically determined if he ceases from any cause to be a director. 
Other than the Managing Director, the Directors are subject to retirement by 
rotation at every Annual General Meeting (AGM).
c) 	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE 
Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF)
The Trustees are not under contract. The office of a trustee becomes vacant if: 
the trustee resigns with a one month’s notice; becomes mentally or physically 
incapacitated; or by removal by the Board of NSE Clear Limited by a resolution. 
A trustee can also retire at any time by giving three (3) months written notice 
to the Board. In the event of the number of trustees falling below three, the 
Board shall, subject to the approval of the CMA, appoint such additional trustees 
as shall be necessary to make their number up to three, save where there is 
appointed a sole corporate trustee.

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued)
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued)
Statement of voting on the Directors’ remuneration report at the Previous Annual General Meeting
a) 	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
During the Annual General Meeting held on 3rd June 2022, the shareholders approved the fees paid to the Directors fees for the year ended 31st December 2021 by show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30th May 2023, approval will be sought from shareholders for the fees paid to the Directors for the financial year ended 31st December 
2022.
b) 	 NSE Clear Limited 
During the Annual General Meeting held on 21st March 2022, the shareholders approved the fees paid to the Directors for the year ended 31st December 2021 by show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10th May 2023, approval will be sought from shareholders for the fees paid to the Directors for the financial year ended 31st December 
2022.
c) 	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF)
The Funds do not hold annual general meetings. The fees for the Trustees are approved by the NSE Clear Limited Board.
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
64

INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT 
The following table shows a single figure remuneration for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and Executive Director in respect of qualifying services for the year 
ended 31st December 2022 together with the comparative figures for 2021. 
Year ended 31 December 2022
Name
Category
Fees
Kshs
Sitting allowances
Kshs
Gross pay + other 
allowances Kshs
Provident scheme contribution 
Kshs
Total
Kshs
Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Non-Executive
1,200,000
660,000
-
-
1,860,000
Paul Mwai*
Non-Executive
960,000
1,450,000
-
-
2,410,000
Isis Nyongo
Non-Executive
720,000
1,335,714
-
-
2,055,714
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
720,000
1,085,714
-
-
1,805,714
Risper Alaro
Non-Executive
720,000
1,128,571
-
-
1,848,571
Paul Vollant
Non-Executive
360,000
571,429
-
-
931,429
Donald Wangunyu
Non-Executive
720,000
957,143
-
-
1,677,143
Stephen Chege
Non-Executive
720,000
821,429
-
-
1,541,429
John Niepold
Non-Executive
360,000
521,429
-
-
881,429
Carole Kariuki
Non-Executive
360,000
442,857
-
-
802,857
Geoffrey Odundo
Executive
-
-
28,913,130
2,561,435
31,474,565
________
_________
__________
_________
_________
6,840,000
8,974,286
28,913,130
2,561,435
47,288,851
=======
========
=========
========
========
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2022 is amounts relating to fees earned for services rendered in other NSE Group Companies as 
tabulated below:
Sitting Allowances
NSE Clear
IPF
SGF
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Paul Mwai
85,714
85,714
85,714
257,143
________
_________
_________
________
85,714
85,714
85,714
257,143
=======
========
========
=======
Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit).
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued)
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
65

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
66
Year ended 31 December 2021
Name
Category
Fees
Kshs
Sitting allowances
Kshs
Gross pay + other 
allowances
Kshs
Provident scheme 
contribution
Kshs
Total
Kshs
Kiprono Kittony
Non-Executive
1,200,000
565,714
-
-
1,765,714
Bob Karina*
Non-Executive
480,000
821,429
-
-
1,301,429
Hosea Kili
Non-Executive
360,000
564,286
-
-
924,286
Isis Madison
Non-Executive
720,000
1,257,142
-
-
1,977,142
Nasim Devji
Non-Executive
360,000
328,571
-
-
688,571
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
720,000
1,042,857
-
-
1,762,857
Paul Vollant
Non-Executive
720,000
942,857
-
-
1,662,857
Paul Mwai*
Non-Executive
840,000
1,371,429
-
-
2,211,429
Risper Alaro
Non-Executive
720,000
1,214,286
-
-
1,934,286
Samuel Kimani*
Non-Executive
360,000
678,571
-
-
1,038,571
Donald Wangunyu
Non-Executive
360,000
435,714
-
-
795,714
Stephen Chege
Non-Executive
360,000
371,428
-
-
731,428
Geoffrey Odundo
Executive
-
-
24,589,136
2,222,400
26,811,536
________
_________
__________
_________
_________
7,200,000
9,594,284
24,589,136
2,222,400
43,605,820
=======
========
=========
========
========
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued)
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued) 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
67
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued)
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued)
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2021 is amounts relating to fees earned for services rendered in other NSE Group Companies as 
tabulated below:
Sitting Allowances
NSE Clear
IPF
SGF
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Samuel Kimani
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
Bob Karina
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
Paul Mwai
57,143
57,143
57,143
171,429
________
_________
_________
________
171,429
171,429
171,429
514,287
=======
========
========
=======
Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit).
Mr. Kuria Waithaka
Secretary
30 March 2023

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
68
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position 
of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and of its profit or loss for that year. The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and 
Group keep proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Company and Group; disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company and Group; and that enables them to prepare financial statements of the Company and Group that comply with prescribed 
financial reporting standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act 2015. They also accept responsibility for: 
1.	 Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from 
material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error;
2.	 Selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and
3.	 Making judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. 
Having made an assessment of the Company’s and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, the directors are not aware of any material uncertainties related 
to events or conditions that may cast doubt upon the Company’s and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 30 March 2023 and signed on its behalf by:
------------------------------
------------------------------
    ---------------------------
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS 
Chairman
Mr. John Niepold 
Director
    Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo
    Chief Executive

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (“NSE”/the “Company”) and its subsidiaries and structured entities 
(together, the “Group”) set out on pages 73 to 146, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2022 and the consolidated 
statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, together with 
the separate statement of financial position of the Company at 31 December 2022, the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows of the Company for the year then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant 
accounting policies.
In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company at 31 December 2022 and of their financial 
performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies 
Act, 2015.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the 
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and company financial statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated and company financial statements in Kenya, and 
we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. We 
have determined that there are no key audit matters to report.

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC 
(Continued) 
Report on the financial statements (Continued)
Other information
The other information comprises the Corporate information, Directors’ report, Corporate governance statement, Statement of directors’ responsibilities, Director’s 
remuneration report and Appendix I and II which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report and the rest of the other information in the Annual Report, 
which are expected to be made available to us after that date but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are 
responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not and will not express any form 
of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information we have received prior to the date of this auditor’s report we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the rest of the other information in the Annual Report and we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the consolidated and company financial statements
The directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or Company or 
to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 
 
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and company financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC 
(Continued) 
Report on the financial statements (Continued)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and company financial statements (Continued)
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	»
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control. 
	»
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s or Company’s internal control.
	»
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors.
	»
Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, 
if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. 
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
	»
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent 
the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
	»
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion 
on the Group’s financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for 
our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant 
deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them 
all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC 
(Continued)
Report on the financial statements (Continued)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and company financial statements (Continued) 
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current 
period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public isclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other matters prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 
Report of the Directors
In our opinion the information given in the directors’ report on page 21 to 22 is consistent with the financial statements.
Directors’ remuneration report
In our opinion the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 65 to 67 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 
2015.
The engagement partner responsible for the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is CPA Freda Mitambo, Practising certificate No. 2174.
------------------------------
For and on behalf of Deloitte & Touche LLP
Certified Public Accountants (Kenya)
Nairobi
30 March 2023

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
73
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
Group
Company
Notes
2022
2021*
2022
2021*
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Transaction levy - equities
6
225,838
329,777
225,838
329,777
Transaction levy - bonds
6
79,380
66,988
79,380
66,988
Data vending income
6
93,548
52,452
93,548
52,452
Annual, initial and additional listing fees
6
71,175
72,041
71,175
72,041
Interest income computed on effective interest rate
9
104,376
105,752
90,300
93,880
Broker back-office subscription
6
29,656
23,377
29,656
23,377
Capital gain on trading book
-
28,451
-
26,634
Unquoted securities platform fees
6
6,463
5,958
-
-
Dividend from equity investment
6,047
6,500
6,047
6,500
Market access fees
6
694
-
694
-
Other income
10
25,587
22,971
32,470
31,403
Share of surplus - NSE LLP
-
-
7,154
-
________
________
________
________
Total income
642,764
714,267
636,262
703,052
________
________
________
________
Staff costs 
8
177,359
171,841
177,359
171,841
System maintenance costs
56,001
54,636
56,001
54,636
Depreciation and amortization
12,14
48,512
54,915
48,511
54,914
Building and office costs
43,193
43,818
41,473
40,889
Directors’ emoluments
32(a)
47,289
43,606
47,032
43,092
Revaluation loss on property
17,222
-
17,222
-
Other expenses
161,413
119,036
153,447
110,176
________
________
________
________
Total expenses
550,989
487,852
541,045
475,548
________
________
________
________
Profit before expected credit loss (ECL) and fair value movements
91,775
226,415
95,217
227,504
Provision for expected credit loss (ECL)
35(b)(iii)
62
5,846
929
4,658
Unrealised loss on bond mark to market valuation
7,370
6,312
7,370
6,312
Share of loss of associate
15(b)
46,544
3,389
25,806
1,910
________
________
________
________
Profit before income tax
7
37,799
210,868
61,112
214,624
Tax expense
11(a)
(24,075)
(78,334)
(21,791)
(71,305)
________
________
________
________
Profit after tax for the year
13,724
132,534
39,321
143,319
=======
=======
=======
=======
* Change in presentation of comparatives (Refer Note 3.21)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
74
Group
Company
Notes
2022
2021*
2022
2021*
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Profit after tax for the year
13,724
132,534
39,321
143,319
=======
=======
=======
=======
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Fair value gain on equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 
31,496
26,613
31,496
26,613
Fair value adjustment from associate on investment in Government securities
 (1,933)
_
(1,074)    
-
________
________
________
________
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
29,563
26,613
30,422
26,613
________
________
________
________
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Share of exchange differences from associate arising from translation of foreign operation
15(b)
-
108
-
60
________
________
________
________
Total other comprehensive income
29,563
26,721
30,422
26,673
________
________
________
________
Total comprehensive income for the year
43,287
159,255
69,743
169,992
=======
=======
=======
=======
Profit for the year attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders of the parent
31
13,876
130,525
39,321
143,319
Non-controlling interest
16(e)
(152)
2,009
-
-
________
________
________
________
13,724
132,534
39,321
143,319
=======
=======
=======
=======
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders of the parent
43,439
157,246
69,743
169,992
Non-controlling interest
16(e)
(152)
2,009
-
-
________
________
________
________
43,287
159,255
69,743
169,992
=======
=======
=======
=======
Sh
Sh
Sh
Sh
Earnings per share - Basic and diluted
31
0.05
0.51
0.15
0.55
=======
=======
=======
=======
* Change in presentation of comparatives (Refer Note 3.21)
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Continued) 		
	
	
	
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
75
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
AT 31 DECEMBER 2022
Notes
2022
2021*
ASSETS
Sh’000
Sh’000
Non-current assets
Property and equipment
12
141,837
171,382
Investment property
13
305,791
313,100
Intangible assets
14
108,360
126,217
Investment in associate 
15(b)
188,275
236,752
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – Quoted equity instruments
17
106,829
75,333
Long-term restricted investments
18
145,314
144,333
Government securities at amortised cost
19(a)
202,615
-
Deferred income tax
20
10,438
-
_________
_________
1,209,459
1,067,117
_________
_________
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
21(a)
91,489
92,393
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss - Government securities
19(b)
256,375
365,598
Tax recoverable
11(c)
94,135
32,423
Fixed deposits
22
6,964
43,766
Short-term restricted cash and investment
22
296,470
238,652
Cash and cash equivalents
22
78,797
374,443
_________
_________
824,230
1,147,275
_________
_________
TOTAL ASSETS
2,033,689
2,214,392
========
========
* Change in presentation of comparatives (Refer Note 3.21)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
76
Notes
2022
2021*
ASSETS
Sh’000
Sh’000
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
24
1,041,567
1,040,017
Share premium
25
279,459
278,579
Revaluation reserve
33,929
2,433
Other reserves
(1,933)
536
Retained earnings
526,654
746,246
_________
_________
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent
1,879,676
2,067,811
Non-controlling interest
16(e)
17,366
17,518
_________
_________
Total equity
1,897,042
2,085,329
_________
_________
Non-current liabilities
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
27
11,750
11,750
Tenant deposits
28(a)
2,215
2,216
Deferred income tax
20
-
1,137
_________
_________
13,965
15,103
_________
_________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
28(b)
63,573
44,490
Dividends payable
29
57,109
67,070
Trading members’ contributions
2,000
2,400
_________
_________
122,682
113,960
_________
_________
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES
2,033,689
2,214,392
========
========
* Change in presentation of comparatives (Refer Note 3.21)
The financial statements on pages 73 to 146 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 30 March 2023 and were signed on its behalf by:
--------------------------------------	
---------------------------------- 	
------------------------------------ 
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS	
Mr. John Niepold	
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo 
Chairman	
Director	
Chief Executive 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Continued)	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
AT 31 DECEMBER 2022

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
77
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
AT 31 DECEMBER 2022
Notes
2022
2021*
Sh’000
Sh’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property and equipment
12
141,836
171,380
Investment property
13
305,791
313,100
Intangible assets
14
108,360
126,217
Investment in associate 
15 (b)
85,739
112,619
Investment in subsidiaries and structured entities
16
241,899
241,899
Investment in NSE LLP
5,842
-
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – Quoted equity instrument
17
106,829
75,333
Government securities at amortised cost
19 (a)
202,615
-
Deferred income tax
20
10,433
-
_________
_________
1,209,344
1,040,548
_________
_________
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
21 (a)
89,931
89,409
Due from related party
12,913
12,913
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss - Government securities
19 (b)
256,375
365,598
Tax recoverable
11 (c)
87,888
27,248
Fixed deposits
22
-
27,933
Short-term restricted cash and investments
22
296,470
238,652
Cash and cash equivalents
22
57,091
362,860
_________
_________
800,668
1,124,613
_________
_________
TOTAL ASSETS
2,010,012
2,165,161
========
========
* Change in presentation of comparatives (Refer Note 3.21)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
78
Notes
2022
2021*
Sh’000
Sh’000
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
24
1,041,567
1,040,017
Share premium
25
279,459
278,579
Revaluation reserve
33,929
2,433
 Other reserves
(1,074)
3
Retained earnings
540,785
735,465
_________
_________
Shareholders’ funds
1,894,666
2,056,497
_________
_________
Non-current liabilities
Tenant deposits
28 (a)
2,215
2,216
Deferred income tax
20
-
1,719
_________
_________
2,215
3,935
_________
_________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
28 (b)
55,947
38,285
Dividends payable
29
57,109
66,444
Due to NSE LLP
75
-
_________
_________
113,131
104,729
_________
_________
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES
2,010,012
2,165,161
========
========
* Change in presentation of comparatives (Refer Note 3.21)
The financial statements on pages 73 to 146 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 30 March 2023 and were signed on its behalf by:
---------------------------------------	
---------------------------------- 	                                   ---------------------------------
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS 	
Mr. John Niepold	
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo 
Chairman	
Director	
Chief Executive 
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Continued) 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
AT 31 DECEMBER 2022

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
79
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
Share
capital
Sh’000
Share
premium
Sh’000
Other
reserves
Sh’000
Revaluation
reserve
Sh’000
Retained
earnings
Sh’000
Due to owners 
of the parent
Sh’000
Non-
controlling
interest
Sh’000
Total
Sh’000
Year ended 31 December 2021
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
428
(24,180)
883,258
2,174,694
15,509
2,190,203
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
130,525
130,525
2,009
132,534
Other comprehensive income for the year 
-
-
108
26,613
-
26,721
-
26,721
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
108
26,613
130,525
157,246
2,009
159,255
2020 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(137,535)
(137,535)
-
(137,535)
2021 first special dividend declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(130,002)
(130,002)
-
(130,002)
Issue of shares to employees share ownership plan (note 26)
2,014
1,394
-
-
-
3,408
-
3,408
________
________
________
________
________
________
________
_______
At end of year
1,040,017
278,579
536
2,433
746,246
2,067,811
17,518
2,085,329
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
Year ended 31 December 2022
At start of year
1,040,017
278,579
536
2,433
746,246
2,067,811
17,518
2,085,329
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
13,876
13,876
(152)
13,724
Other comprehensive income for the year 
-
-
(2,469)
31,496
536
29,563
-
29,563
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(2,469)
31,496
14,412
43,439
(152)
43,287
2021 second special dividend declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(130,002)
(130,002)
-
(130,002)
2021 final dividend declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(104,002)
(104,002)
-
(104,002)
Issue of shares to employees share ownership plan (note 26)
1,550
880
-
-
-
2,430
-
2,430
________
________
________
________
________
________
________
_______
At end of year
1,041,567
279,459
(1,933)
33,929
526,654
1,879,676
17,366
1,897,042
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation of equity instruments through other comprehensive income.
Other reserves relate to the Company’s share of the fair value adjustments of the associate through other comprehensive income. 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
80
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
Share 
capital
Sh’000
Share 
premium
Sh’000
Other
reserves
Sh’000
Revaluation
reserve
Sh’000
Retained 
earnings
Sh’000
Total 
 Sh’000
Year ended 31 December 2021
At start of year
1,038,003
277,185
(57)
(24,180)
859,683
2,150,634
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
143,319
143,319
Other comprehensive income for the year 
-
-
60
26,613
-
26,673
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
60
26,613
143,319
169,992
2020 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(137,535)
(137,535)
2021 first special dividend declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(130,002)
(130,002)
Issue of shares to employee share ownership plan (note 26)
2,014
1,394
-
-
-
3,408
________
________
________
________
________
________
At end of year
1,040,017
278,579
3
2,433
735,465
2,056,497
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
Year ended 31 December 2022
At start of year
1,040,017
278,579
3
2,433
735,465
2,056,497
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
39,321
39,321
Other comprehensive income for the year 
-
-
(1,077)
31,496
3
30,422
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(1,077)
31,496
39,324
69,743
2021 second special dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(130,002)
(130,002)
2021 final dividend declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(104,002)
(104,002)
Issue of shares to employee share ownership plan (note 26)
1,550
880
-
-
-
2,430
________
________
________
________
________
________
At end of year
1,041,567
279,459
(1,074)
33,929
540,785
1,894,666
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
=======
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation of equity instruments through other comprehensive income.
Other reserves relate to the Company’s share of the fair value adjustments of the associate through other comprehensive income.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
81
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
Group
Company
Notes
2022
2021*
2022
2021*
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before income tax
37,799
210,868
61,112
214,624
Adjustments totals
30
9,589
(46,670)
(2,916)
(36,278)
Working capital changes totals
30
19,586
(24,311)
17,214
(32,641)
________
________
________
________
Cash generated from operations
30
66,974
139,887
75,410
145,705
Tax paid
11(c)
(97,362)
(85,391)
(94,583)
(80,842)
________
________
________
________
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities
(30,388)
54,496
(19,173)
64,863
________
________
________
________
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property and equipment
12
(7,564)
(5,528)
(7,564)
(5,528)
Purchase of intangible assets 
14
(5,201)
(3,648)
(5,201)
(3,648)
Interest received
104,376
105,752
90,300
93,880
Dividend received from associate
15(b)
-
47,634
-
26,436
Proceeds on disposal of equipment
1,098
4,117
1,098
4,117
Investment in treasury bonds
(93,392)
(84,567)
(93,392)
(84,454)
Investment in fixed deposits
(86,791)
82,703
(95,660)
98,536
Investment in long term restricted investments
(981)
26,605
-
-
________
________
________
________
Cash (used in)/generated from investing activities
(88,455)
173,068
(110,419)
129,339
________
________
________
________
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid
29
(243,965)
(232,533)
(243,339)
(232,533)
Contributions from clearing members
-
(23,500)
-
-
________
________
________
________
Cash used in financing activities
(243,965)
(256,033)
(243,339)
(232,533)
________
________
________
________
* Change in presentation of comparatives (Refer Note 3.21)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
82
Group
Company
Notes
2022
2021*
2022
2021*
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents
(362,808)
(28,469)
(372,931)
(38,331)
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of year
613,095
641,400
601,512
639,679
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes
1,387
164
1,387
164
________
________
________
________
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year
251,674
613,095
229,968
601,512
=======
=======
=======
=======
Consisting of:
Cash and bank balances 
10,591
26,480
9,849
14,897
Fixed deposits – maturity within three months
  - Restricted funds
37
172,877
210,719
172,877
210,719
  - Unrestricted funds
68,206
375,896
47,242
375,896
________
________
________
________
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year
22
251,674
613,095
229,968
601,512
=======
=======
=======
=======
* Change in presentation of comparatives (Refer Note 3.21)
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Continued) 		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
83
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 	 	
	
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
1	 REPORTING ENTITY
The Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc (NSE/the “Company”/the “Exchange”), 
formerly known as the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited, was 
incorporated in Kenya under the Companies Act and is domiciled in Kenya. 
The NSE is licensed as an exchange by the Capital Markets Authority 
(CMA) of Kenya and obtained a license on 19 October 2015 to operate a 
derivatives exchange. The NSE currently has the primary market services as 
a main line of business. The consolidated financial statements of the Group 
at and for the year ended 31 December 2022 comprise the Company and 
subsidiaries and controlled structured entities (collectively referred to as 
the “Group”) and reflect the Company’s interest in an associate company.
2	 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING 
THE REPORTED RESULTS OR FINANCIAL POSITION
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently 
applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
a)	 Statement of compliance 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and 
in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and 
the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The IFRS are issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board.
b)	 Basis of preparation 
The financial statements comprise a profit and loss account (statement of 
profit or loss and other comprehensive income), balance sheet (statement 
of financial position), statement of changes in equity, statement of cash 
flows, and notes. Income and expenses, excluding the components of other 
comprehensive income (OCI), are recognised in the profit or loss. Other 
comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and comprises items of income and expense (including reclassification 
adjustments) that are not recognised in the profit or loss as required or 
permitted by IFRS. Reclassification adjustments are amounts reclassified 
to the profit or loss in the current period that were recognised in other 
comprehensive income in the current or previous periods. Transactions 
with the owners of the Company in their capacity as owners are recognised 
in the statement of changes in equity
i)	 	Basis of measurement 
The measurement basis used is the historical cost basis except where 
otherwise stated in the accounting policies below.
Under the historical cost basis, assets are recorded at the amount of cash 
or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the consideration given to 
acquire them at the time of their acquisition. Liabilities are recorded at the 
amount of proceeds received in exchange for the obligation or, in some 
cases, at the amounts of cash or cash equivalents expected to be paid to 
satisfy the liability in the normal course of business.
For those assets and liabilities measured at fair value, fair value is the price 
that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in 
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement 
date. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group 
uses market observable data as far as possible. If the fair value of an asset 
or a liability is not directly observable, it is estimated by the Group using 
valuation techniques that maximise the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimise the use of unobservable inputs (e.g. by use of the market 
comparable approach that reflects recent transaction prices for similar 
items or discounted cash flow analysis). Inputs used are consistent with 
the characteristics of the asset/liability that market participants would take 
into account.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
84
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
2 	 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING 
THE REPORTED RESULTS OR FINANCIAL POSITION 
(Continued)
b)   Basis of preparation (Continued) 
ii)   Use of estimates and judgment 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires 
the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires the 
directors to exercise their judgment in the process of applying the Group’s 
and Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree 
of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are 
significant to the financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.
c)  Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting  	   
     Standards (IFRS)
i)	
Relevant new standards and amendments to published standards 
effective for the year ended 31 December 2022
Several new and revised standards and interpretations became effective 
during the year. The Directors have evaluated the impact of the new 
standards and interpretations and none of them had a significant impact 
on the Group’s financial statements.
The following revised IFRSs were effective in the current year and the 
nature and the impact of the relevant amendments are described below:
Amendments to IAS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment—Proceeds 
before Intended Use 
The amendments prohibit deducting from the cost of an item of property, 
plant and equipment any proceeds from selling items produced before 
that asset is available for use, i.e. proceeds while bringing the asset to the 
location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the 
manner intended by management. Consequently, an entity recognises such 
sales proceeds and related costs in profit or loss. The entity measures the 
cost of those items in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories. 
The amendments also clarify the meaning of ‘testing whether an asset is 
functioning properly’. IAS 16 now specifies this as assessing whether the 
technical and physical performance of the asset is such that it is capable 
of being used in the production or supply of goods or services, for rental 
to others, or for administrative purposes. If not presented separately in the 
statement of comprehensive income, the financial statements shall disclose 
the amounts of proceeds and cost included in profit or loss that relate to 
items produced that are not an output of the entity’s ordinary activities, 
and which line item(s) in the statement of comprehensive income include(s) 
such proceeds and cost.
The amendments are applied retrospectively, but only to items of property, 
plant and equipment that are brought to the location and condition necessary 
for them to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management 
on or after the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial 
statements in which the entity first applies the amendments. 
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2018–2020
The Annual Improvements include amendments to the following Standards:
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of new and revised International Financial 
Reporting Standards
The amendment provides additional relief to a subsidiary which becomes a 
first-time adopter later than its parent in respect of accounting for cumulative 
translation differences. As a result of the amendment, a subsidiary that uses 
the exemption in IFRS 1:D16(a) can now also elect to measure cumulative 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
85
translation differences for all foreign operations at the carrying amount 
that would be included in the parent’s consolidated financial statements, 
based on the parent’s date of transition to IFRS Standards, if no adjustments 
were made for consolidation procedures and for the effects of the business 
combination in which the parent acquired the subsidiary. A similar election 
is available to an associate or joint venture that uses the exemption in IFRS 
1:D16(a).
IFRS 16 Leases
The amendment removes the illustration of the reimbursement of leasehold 
improvements.
As the amendment to IFRS 16 only regards an illustrative example, no 
effective date is stated.
Amendments to IFRS 3 business combinations - Reference to the 
Conceptual Framework
The amendments update IFRS 3 so that it refers to the 2019 Conceptual 
Framework instead of the 1989 Framework. They also add to IFRS 3 a 
requirement that, for obligations within the scope of IAS 37, an acquirer 
applies IAS 37 to determine whether at the acquisition date a present 
obligation exists as a result of past events. For a levy that would be within 
the scope of IFRIC 21 Levies, the acquirer applies IFRIC 21 to determine 
whether the obligating event that gives rise to a liability to pay the levy has 
occurred by the acquisition date.
Finally, the amendments add an explicit statement that an acquirer does not 
recognise contingent assets acquired in a business combination.
Amendments to IAS 37 – Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract 
The amendments specify that the ‘cost of fulfilling’ a contract comprises 
the ‘costs that relate directly to the contract’. Costs that relate directly to 
a contract consist of both the incremental costs of fulfilling that contract 
(examples would be direct labour or materials) and an allocation of other 
costs that relate directly to fulfilling contracts (an example would be the 
allocation of the depreciation charge for an item of property, plant and 
equipment used in fulfilling the contract).
The amendments apply to contracts for which the entity has not yet fulfilled 
all its obligations at the beginning of the annual reporting period in which 
the entity first applies the amendments. Comparatives are not restated. 
Instead, the entity shall recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying 
the amendments as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained 
earnings or other component of equity, as appropriate, at the date of initial 
application.
ii)	 Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations in issue but 
not yet effective 
At the date of authorization of these financial statements, the Group has 
not yet applied the following new and revised IFRS Standards that have 
been issued but are not yet effective. The Directors do not expect any 
significant impact on the Group’s financial statements.
New and Amendments to standards
Effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after
Amendments to IAS 1 - Classification of Liabilities as 
Current or Non-current
Annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice Statement 2	
Disclosure of accounting policies
Annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 12 - Deferred Tax related to 
Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction
Annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 8	
 - Definition of accounting 
estimates
Annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
2 	 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING 
THE REPORTED RESULTS OR FINANCIAL POSITION 
(Continued)
c)	 Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) (Continued)
i)	 Relevant new standards and amendments to published standards 	
effective for the year ended 31 December 2022 (Continued)
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2018–2020 (Continued)
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards 
(Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
86
Amendments to IAS 1 – Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-
current 
The amendments to IAS 1 affect only the presentation of liabilities as current 
or non-current in the statement of financial position and not the amount 
or timing of recognition of any asset, liability, income or expenses, or the 
information disclosed about those items.
The amendments clarify that the classification of liabilities as current 
or non-current is based on rights that are in existence at the end of the 
reporting period, specify that classification is unaffected by expectations 
about whether an entity will exercise its right to defer settlement of a 
liability, explain that rights are in existence if covenants are complied with 
at the end of the reporting period, and introduce a definition of ‘settlement’ 
to make clear that settlement refers to the transfer to the counterparty of 
cash, equity instruments, other assets or services.
The amendments are applied retrospectively for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2023, with early application permitted.
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IFRS 
Practice Statement 2 Making Materiality Judgements - Disclosure of 
Accounting Policies
The amendments change the requirements in IAS 1 with regard to 
disclosure of accounting policies. The amendments replace all instances of 
the term ‘significant accounting policies’ with ‘material accounting policy 
information’. 
Accounting policy information is material if, when considered together 
with other information included in an entity’s financial statements, it can 
reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of 
general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial 
statements.
The supporting paragraphs in IAS 1 are also amended to clarify that 
accounting policy information that relates to immaterial transactions, other 
events or conditions is immaterial and need not be disclosed. Accounting 
policy information may be material because of the nature of the related 
transactions, other events or conditions, even if the amounts are immaterial. 
However, not all accounting policy information relating to material 
transactions, other events or conditions is itself material.
The Board has also developed guidance and examples to explain and 
demonstrate the application of the ‘four-step materiality process’ described 
in IFRS Practice Statement 2.
The amendments to IAS 1 are effective for annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2023, with earlier application permitted and are applied 
prospectively. The amendments to IFRS Practice Statement 2 do not contain 
an effective date or transition requirements.
Amendments to IAS 12 - Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities 
arising from a Single Transaction
The amendments introduce a further exception from the initial recognition 
exemption. Under the amendments, an entity does not apply the initial 
recognition exemption for transactions that give rise to equal taxable and 
deductible temporary differences.
Depending on the applicable tax law, equal taxable and deductible temporary 
differences may arise on initial recognition of an asset and liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither accounting 
nor taxable profit. For example, this may arise upon recognition of a lease 
liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset applying IFRS 16 at the 
commencement date of a lease.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
2 	 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING 
THE REPORTED RESULTS OR FINANCIAL POSITION 
(Continued)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
c)	 Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting 	
	
	
Standards (IFRS) (Continued)		
	
	
	
	
	
ii)	 Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations 	 	
	
in issue but not yet effective (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
87
Following the amendments to IAS 12, an entity is required to recognise the 
related deferred tax asset and liability, with the recognition of any deferred 
tax asset being subject to the recoverability criteria in IAS 12.
The Board also adds an illustrative example to IAS 12 that explains how 
the amendments are applied.
The amendments apply to transactions that occur on or after the beginning 
of the earliest comparative period presented. In addition, at the beginning of 
the earliest comparative period an entity recognises:
»	
A deferred tax asset (to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can 
be utilised) and a deferred tax liability for all deductible and taxable 
temporary differences associated with:
•	
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
•	
Decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities and the 
corresponding amounts recognised as part of the cost of the related 
asset
»	
The cumulative effect of initially applying the amendments as an 
adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings (or other 
component of equity, as appropriate) at that date The amendments are 
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 
	
2023, with earlier application permitted.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
            
Amendments to IAS 8 - Definition of Accounting Estimates
The amendments replace the definition of a change in accounting estimates 
with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new definition, 
accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements that 
are subject to measurement uncertainty”.
The definition of a change in accounting estimates was deleted. However, 
the Board retained the concept of changes in accounting estimates in the 
Standard with the following clarifications:
	»
A change in accounting estimate that results from new information or 
new developments is not the correction of an error
	»
The effects of a change in an input or a measurement technique used to 
develop an accounting estimate are changes in accounting estimates if 
they do not result from the correction of prior period errors
The Board added two examples (Examples 4-5) to the Guidance on 
implementing IAS 8, which accompanies the Standard. The Board has 
deleted one example (Example 3) as it could cause confusion in light of the 
amendments.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2023 to changes in accounting policies and changes in accounting 
estimates that occur on or after the beginning of that period, with earlier 
application permitted.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
2 	 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING 
THE REPORTED RESULTS OR FINANCIAL POSITION 
(Continued)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
c)	 Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting  	  	
	
Standards (IFRS)(Continued)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
ii)	 Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations 	 	
	
in issue but not yet effective (Continued)	 	
	
	
	
Amendments to IAS 12 - Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities 
arising from a Single Transaction (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
88
3 	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES 
3.1   Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of 
the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc and its subsidiaries, controlled structured 
entities, a limited liability partnership and interest in associate company 
made up to 31 December 2022. These have all been fully consolidated. 
i)   Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the 
group has control. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed 
to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity 
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the 
entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control 
ceases.
The group applies the acquisition method to account for business 
combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred 
to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the 
group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or 
liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. 
The group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying 
value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-
measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising 
from such re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group is recognised 
at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value 
of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is 
recognised in accordance with IFRS 9 either in profit or loss or as a change 
to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is classified 
as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted 
for within equity. The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount 
of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date 
fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair 
value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the 
total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and 
previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets 
of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference 
is recognised directly in the profit or loss.
The Group financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities and results 
of the operations of the NSE Clear Limited, a company formed to act as a 
central counterparty in all the derivative transactions and AKS Nominees 
Limited. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses in the Company’s separate financial statements. Details 
of NSE’s subsidiary are set out in Note 16.
The accounting policies of the subsidiaries have been changed where 
necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
89
	
ii.   Structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund and the NSE Derivatives 
Investor Protection Fund are trusts established under the Trustee Act (Cap. 
167) pursuant to the statutory obligations imposed on the NSE, as a licensed 
exchange, by the provisions of the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) 
Regulations, 2015 and clause 1.90 and 1.10 of the NSE Derivatives Rules. 
Clause 1.90 requires that the NSE, shall by itself or through a clearing 
house, establish and maintain a Settlement Guarantee Fund to strengthen 
the financial integrity of the derivatives market and ensure settlement of 
transactions in derivatives securities in case of default by a clearing member 
(CM). Clause 1.10 requires that the NSE shall establish and maintain an 
Investor Protection Fund to satisfy specified claims by the investing public 
arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading 
members or losses incurred by reason of the default of the trading members 
up to an amount specified in the rules. 
Management and administration of the assets and operations of these trusts 
is done by a management committee formed by the NSE Clear Board of 
Directors. The Trustees of the funds act as the custodians and trustees of the 
assets of these Funds as defined in the trust deeds and rules of these Funds. 
The Fund’s assets are segregated from the assets of the NSE and the NSE 
Clear Limited but are effectively controlled by NSE Clear Limited. The NSE, 
by virtue of its role as the parent company of the clearing house, NSE Clear 
Limited, has to consolidate the results of these funds in its annual financial 
statements. 
The subsidiary and structured entities are stated at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses in the separate financial statements of the Company. 
Separate financial statements are prepared for the subsidiary and the 
structured entities, and independent external audits performed.
iii)   Investment in associate 
Associates are those entities which the Group has significant influence, but 
not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is 
presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% to 50% of the voting 
power of another entity. The results and assets and liabilities of associates 
are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of 
accounting. Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried 
in the statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any 
impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of an associate in 
excess of the Group’s interest in that associate are recognised only to the 
extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the associate.
iv)   Partnerships
In  2021, the Company incorporated a Limited Liability Partnership namely 
NSE LLP. The Partners of the NSE LLP are the NSE PLC, Chief Executive 
and the Chief Operating Officer of the NSE PLC. The NSE LLP also has a 
Management Committee that oversees the day to day activities of the NSE 
LLP. The Management Committee of the LLP reports to the Board of Directors 
of NSE PLC. The principal activity of the NSE LLP is to run the recently 
launched Unquoted Securities Platform. As per the Partnership Deed, NSE 
PLC contributed 100% of the capital of the NSE LLP and is allocated all 
profits and losses of the NSE LLP.
NSE LLP is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses in the 
separate financial statements of the Company. The results of NSE LLP are 
incorporated in the statements of profit or loss in the Company’s financial 
statements. Separate financial statements are prepared for the Partnership, 
and independent external audits performed. 
3.2    Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions and any unrealized income and 
expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements. 
Unrealized gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees 
are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups’ interest in 
the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized 
gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3 	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)	
3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
90
3.3   Foreign currencies 
 i)   Functional and Presentation currency
The financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using 
the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity 
operates (the “Functional Currency”). The financial statements are presented 
in Kenya Shilling which is the Group’s and the Company’s Functional and 
Presentation Currency. Except as indicated, financial information presented 
in Kenya Shillings has been rounded to the nearest thousand.
 ii)   Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions that are transactions denominated, or that 
require settlement, in a foreign currency are translated into the respective 
functional currencies of the operations using the exchange rates prevailing 
at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, 
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the 
rates prevailing at that date. 
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement 
of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates 
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
recognised in profit or loss. 
Translation differences on non-monetary financial instruments, such as 
equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the 
fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary financial 
instruments, such as equities classified as financial assets through other 
comprehensive income are included in other comprehensive income.
3.4   Total income recognition
The Group recognises income as and when it satisfies a performance 
obligation by transferring control of a service to a customer. The amount 
of income recognised is the amount the Group expects to receive in 
accordance with the terms of the contract, and excludes discounts and 
amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as Value Added Tax.
Transaction levy income is based on a percentage of the value of shares 
traded and is recognised on the dates of the transactions. The transaction 
levy on equity is computed at the rate of 0.12% of the value of all equity 
transactions executed while that for bonds is computed at a rate of 0.0035% 
of the value of all fixed income transactions executed. The levy fees are 
computed on both the buy and sell side.
Data vending income is fees charged for the sale of trading data statistics. 
This is charged either on a lumpsum, monthly, quarterly or annual basis 
depending on the contract provision and how the performance obligation is 
satisfied throughout the contract.
Data vending income that is not charged on a monthly but on a lump sum 
basis is recognized in income based on the contract value. Where the contract 
value is below 5% of the budgeted total data vending income for that year, 
then all the data income is booked in full within the year the income is 
contracted. Where the contract value is above 5% of the budgeted total 
data income then only the portion for the year is recognized within income 
for that year. 
Annual listing fee is computed on the basis of the daily weighted average 
capitalisation value of the listed securities for the 11 months period between 
1 January and 30 November. This fee is generally paid in advance on the 
first day of the membership or subscription period. The Group recognises 
revenue on a straight-line basis over the period to which the fee relates, as 
this reflects the extent of the Group’s progress towards completion of the 
performance obligation under the contract.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
91
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)	
	
	
	
	
	
3.4   Total income recognition (Continued)
Initial listing income is recognized in the year in which the listing company 
makes the flotation. Additional listing income is recognized during the 
year in which the issuing company makes announcement of the bonus/
rights issues. The initial listing and additional listing fees represent one 
performance obligation and are billed to the issuing company at the time of 
admission to trading and become payable when invoiced.
Interest income from a financial asset is recognised on a time basis by 
reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net 
carrying amount on initial recognition.
The Unquoted Securities Platform (USP) is an automated solution for the 
issuance and trading of securities of unquoted companies. The platform 
offers world class trading infrastructure and information services as well 
as enables company’s access capital markets for long term funding through 
private placements and restricted offers. Unquoted securities platform fee is 
charged on the issuer application fees based on the approved rates for initial 
admission, annual service, secondary transfer per transaction, fund raising 
fee, financier admission fee and settlement custodian fee and is recognized 
in income on the date of the transaction.
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss when the right to receive 
payment is established, which is the date the dividend is declared. 
Market access fees are fees charged on the admission of a market participant 
as a member of the Group and are recognised over a period of three years.
Other income comprises income charged on the broker back office, 
rental income, net foreign exchange gains, profit on sale of property and 
equipment, investor protection levy, management fee, surplus distribution 
by Settlement Guarantee Fund, training fee and other sundry income. 
Broker back office (BBO) subscription is the fee charged on a monthly 
basis to trading firms that have signed on to use the BBO trading system as 
provided in the contract.
Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or loss on a 
straight line basis over the term of the lease. 
Management fee is charged by the NSE to the subsidiaries and structured 
entities to cater for expenses attributable to investment and treasury 
management services, staff costs and other general and administrative 
overheads. 
Surplus distributed by the Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) is income 
charged to compensate the Clearing Members who have contributed to the 
SGF.  This is computed at 80% of the total surplus for the year for SGF 
and distributed to the members based on their capital contributions. Since 
contributions from the clearing members are refundable at any point on exit 
of the member, the computed surplus for the clearing members is expensed 
while that of the NSE is offset against retained earnings.
An investor protection levy of 0.01% is charged on the transaction value/
notional value (or such other amount as may be determined by the NSE 
in consultation with the CMA), for all transactions in derivative securities 
which levy is remitted to the Investor Protection Fund. 
3.5   Property and equipment
The building is carried at revaluation less any subsequent accumulated 
depreciation. Revaluations are performed with sufficient regularity to 
ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which 
would be determined using fair value at the end of the year. The frequency 
of valuation is annual.
Motor vehicles and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment losses.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
92
Professional valuations on buildings are carried out in accordance with the 
Group policy. The fair value is determined based on the market comparable 
approach that reflects recent transaction prices for similar properties. In 
estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best use of the 
properties is their current use. There has been no change to the valuation 
technique during the year.
Increases in the carrying amounts of property resulting from revaluation 
is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, 
except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for the same 
asset previously recognized in profit or loss, in which case the increase is 
credited to profit or loss to the extent of the decrease previously expensed. 
A decrease in carrying amount arising on the revaluation of buildings is 
recognized in profit or loss to the extent that it exceeds the balance, if any, 
held in the properties revaluation reserve relating to a previous revaluation 
of that asset.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis to write down the cost 
of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows:
Motor vehicles	
	
	
            		
	
	
   4 years
Furniture and  fittings                	
            		
	
	
   8 years
Office equipment                                   	
	
	
	
   4 years
Computer equipment   	
	
            		
	
	
   4 years
Buildings 	                                                	
	
	
	
46 years 
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its estimated 
recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its 
estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of equipment are determined as the difference 
between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the date 
of disposal and taken into account in determining operating profit. Gains or 
losses arising from changes in fair value of the building are included in other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise net of deferred 
taxes.
3.6   Intangible assets
Intangible assets represent purchased computer software and is initially 
recognised at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried 
at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses. Amortisation is calculated to write-off software on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful life of 4 – 10 years.
3.7   Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to review the useful lives and 
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of 
the asset is estimated and an impairment loss is recognized in profit or loss 
whenever the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
3.8   Investment property
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals, is stated at its 
fair value, at the reporting date as determined through its revaluation by 
external valuers on the basis of the highest and best use. Gains or losses 
arising from changes in fair value of the investment property are included 
in profit or loss in the year in which they arise. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)	
	
	
	
	
	
3.5   Property and equipment (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
93
3.9   Restricted cash and investments
The Group classifies all cash, cash equivalents and investments that 
are not available for general use by the Group, either due to regulatory 
requirements or through restrictions in specific agreements, as restricted in 
the accompanying statement of financial position.
Short-term restricted cash and investments
As required by the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015, 
the Group is required to maintain a minimum liquid net-worth capital 
requirement equal to one half of the total estimated operating costs for the 
next twelve (12) months period. At 31 December 2022, this amount was Sh 
296 million (2021: Sh 239 million). The amounts are reflected as short-term 
restricted cash and investments (note 22).
Long-term restricted cash and investments
The NSE has contributed Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million and Sh 10 million as 
seed capital to the subsidiary, NSE Clear Limited, and the structured entities, 
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund and NSE Derivatives Investor 
Protection Fund respectively. These amounts could be used in the event of 
a clearing/trading member’s default where the amount of the defaulting 
clearing/trading member’s initial, variation and additional margins and 
guarantee fund deposits are insufficient.
These amounts together with related earned interest are held in bank 
deposits that have been classified as restricted (note 18).
3.10   Financial instruments
i)   Equity instruments
Equity instruments are instruments that meet the definition of equity from 
the issuer’s perspective; that is, instruments that do not contain a contractual 
obligation to pay and that evidence a residual interest in the issuer’s net 
assets e.g. basic ordinary shares. 
The Group management has elected, at initial recognition, to irrevocably 
designate an equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive 
income (FVOCI) a when those investments are held for purposes other than 
to generate investment returns.
Dividends, when representing a return on such investments, continue to 
be recognised in profit or loss as other income when the Group’s right to 
receive payment is established.
ii)   Debt instruments 
a)   Recognition and subsequent measurement
	
Financial instruments are recognised when, and only when, the Group 
becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. All financial 
assets are recognised initially using the trade date accounting which is the 
date the Group commits itself to the purchase or sale. 
At initial recognition, financial assets are measured at fair value, and are 
classified and subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL), fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) or 
amortized cost based on: 
	»
the Group’s business model for managing the financial assets; and 
	»
the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
	»
Based on these factors, the Group classifies its financial assets into one 
of the following three measurement categories:
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)	
	
	
	
	
	

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
94
	»
Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash 
flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal 
and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest 
rate method. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised 
directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains/ (losses) together 
with foreign exchange gains and losses. Impairment losses are presented 
as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
	»
FVTOCI: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and 
for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent 
solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVTOCI. 
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for 
the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and 
foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or 
loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or 
loss and recognised in other gains/ (losses). Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest 
rate method. Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other 
gains/ (losses) and impairment expenses are presented as separate line 
item in the statement of profit or loss.
	»
FVTPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or 
FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that 
is subsequently measured at FVTPL is recognised in profit or loss and 
presented net within other gains/ (losses) in the period in which it arises.
 	
Business model: the business model reflects how the Group manages 
the assets in order to generate cash flows i.e. whether the Group’s 
objective is solely to collect the contractual cash flows from the assets or 
is to collect both the contractual cash flows and cash flows arising from 
the sale of assets. If neither of these is applicable (e.g. financial assets 
held for trading purposes), then the financial assets are classified as part 
of ‘other’ business model and measured at FVTPL. Factors considered 
by the Group in determining the business model for a group of assets 
include past experience on how the cash flows for these assets were 
collected, how the asset’s performance is evaluated and reported to key 
management personnel and how risks are assessed and managed.
 	
SPPI: Where the business model is to hold assets to collect contractual 
cash flows or to collect contractual cash flows and sell, the Group 
assesses whether the financial instruments’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI test’). In making this assessment, 
the Group considers whether the contractual cash flows are consistent 
with a basic lending arrangement i.e. includes only consideration for the 
time value of money, credit risk, other basic lending risks and a profit 
margin that is consistent with a basic lending arrangement. Where 
the contractual terms introduce exposure to risk or volatility that are 
inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement, the related financial 
asset is classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss. 
	
The Group reclassifies financial assets when and only when its business 
model for managing those assets changes.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments (Continued)
ii)	  Debt instruments (Continued)
a)	 Recognition and subsequent measurement (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
95
b)	 Impairment 
The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses (ECL) on 
financial assets that are measured at amortised cost or at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. 
The loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected 
credit losses for financial instruments for which: (a) the credit risk has 
increased significantly since initial recognition; or (b) there is observable 
evidence of impairment (a credit-impaired financial asset). If, at the reporting 
date, the credit risk on a financial asset other than a trade receivable has 
not increased significantly since initial recognition, the loss allowance is 
measured for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month 
expected credit losses. All changes in the loss allowance are recognised in 
profit or loss as impairment gains or losses.
Lifetime expected credit losses represent the expected credit losses that 
result from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial 
instrument. 12-month expected credit losses represent the portion of 
lifetime expected credit losses that result from default events on a financial 
asset that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
Expected credit losses are measured in a way that reflects an unbiased and 
probability-weighted amount determined by evaluating a range of possible 
outcomes, the time value of money, and reasonable and supportable 
information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting 
date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic 
conditions.
In applying the IFRS 9 impairment requirements, the Group follows one 
of the approaches below:
	»
The general approach
	»
The simplified approach
The General Approach
Under the general approach, at each reporting date, the Group 
determines whether the financial asset is in one of the three stages 
below, to determine both the amount of ECL to recognise as well as 
how interest income should be recognised.
	»
Stage 1 - where credit risk has not increased significantly since 
initial recognition. For financial assets in stage 1, the Group will 
recognise 12 month ECL and recognise interest income on a gross 
basis – this means that interest will be calculated on the gross 
carrying amount of the financial asset before adjusting for ECL.
	»
Stage 2 - where credit risk has increased significantly since initial 
recognition. When a financial asset transfers to stage 2, the Group 
will recognise lifetime ECL but interest income will continue to be 
recognised on a gross basis.
	»
Stage 3 - where the financial asset is credit impaired. This is 
effectively the point at which there has been an incurred loss event. 
For financial assets in stage 3, the Group will continue to recognise 
lifetime ECL but they will now recognise interest income on a net 
basis. As such, interest income will be calculated based on the gross 
carrying amount of the financial asset less ECL. 
	
An asset is credit-impaired if one or more events have occurred that have 
a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the asset. 
The changes in the loss allowance balance are recognised in profit or 
loss as an impairment gain or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii)	  Debt instruments (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
96
The Simplified approach
Under the simplified approach, the Group measures the loss allowance at 
an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses.
Definition of default
The Group will consider a financial asset to be in default when:
	»
the counterparty or borrower is unlikely to pay their credit obligations 
to the Group in full, without recourse by the Group to actions such as 
realising security (if any is held); or
	»
the counterparty or borrower is more than 90 days past due on any 
material credit obligation to the Group. This will be consistent with 
the rebuttable criteria set out by IFRS 9 and existing practice of the 
Group; or
In assessing whether the counterparty or borrower is in default, the Group 
considers indicators that are:
	»
Qualitative: e.g. Breach of covenant and other indicators of financial 
distress;
	»
Quantitative: e.g. Overdue status and non-payment of another 
obligation of the same issuer to the Company; and
	»
Based on data developed internally and obtained from external 
sources. 
»     Inputs into the assessment of whether a financial instrument is in  
       default and their significance may vary over time to reflect changes     
       in circumstances.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Significant increase in credit risk (SIICR)
When determining whether the credit risk (i.e. risk of default) on a financial 
instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group 
considers reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and 
available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative 
and qualitative information and analysis based on the Group’s historical 
experience, expert credit assessment and forward-looking information.
The Group primarily identifies whether a significant increase in credit risk 
has occurred for an exposure by comparing:
	»
The remaining lifetime probability of default (PD) as at the reporting 
date; with
	»
The remaining lifetime PD for this point in time that was estimated on 
initial recognition of the exposure.
The assessment of significant deterioration is key in establishing the point 
of switching between the requirement to measure an allowance based on 
12-month expected credit losses and one that is based on lifetime expected 
credit losses.
The Group monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify 
significant increases in credit risk by regular reviews to confirm that:
	»
the criteria are capable of identifying significant increases in credit risk 
before an exposure is in default;
	»
the criteria do not align with the point in time when an asset becomes 
30 days past due;
	»
the average time between the identification of a significant increase in 
credit risk and default appears reasonable;
	»
exposures are not generally transferred from 12-month ECL measurement 
to credit-impaired; and
	»
there is no unwarranted volatility in loss allowance from transfers 
between 12-month and lifetime ECL measurements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3 	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments (Continued)
ii)	  Debt instruments  (Continued)
b)	 Impairment (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
97
Measurement of ECL
The key inputs into the measurement of ECL are the term structures of the 
following variables: 
	»
Probability of Default (PD)
	»
Loss given default (LGD) and
	»
Exposure at default (EAD)
To determine lifetime and 12-month PDs, the Group uses externally 
developed PD tables based on the default history of obligors with the same 
credit rating. The Group adopts the same approach for unrated investments 
by mapping external credit ratings. Changes in the rating for a counterparty 
or exposure lead to a change in the estimate of the associated PD.
LGD is the magnitude of the likely loss if there is a default. The Group 
estimates LGD parameters based on the history of recovery rates of claims 
against defaulted counterparties. The LGD models consider the structure, 
collateral, seniority of the claim, counterparty industry and recovery costs 
of any collateral that is integral to the financial asset. 
EAD represents the expected exposure in the event of a default. The Group 
derives the EAD from the current exposure to the counterparty and potential 
changes to the current amount allowed under the contract, including 
amortisation, and prepayments. The EAD of a financial asset is its gross 
carrying amount.
As described above, and subject to using a maximum of a 12-month PD 
for financial assets for which credit risk has not significantly increased, 
the Group measures ECL considering the risk of default over the maximum 
contractual period over which it is exposed to credit risk, even if, for risk 
management purposes, the Group considers a longer period. 
Where modelling of a parameter is carried out on a collective basis, the 
financial instruments are grouped on the basis of shared risk characteristics, 
which include: instrument type; credit risk grading; collateral type; date of 
initial recognition; remaining term to maturity.
The groupings are subject to regular review to ensure that exposures within 
a group remain appropriately homogeneous.
When ECLs are measured using parameters based on collective modelling, 
a significant input into the measurement of ECL is the external benchmark 
information that the Group uses to derive the default rates of its portfolios. 
This includes the PDs provided by rating agencies.
Expected credit losses are computed as a product of the Probability of 
Default (PD), Loss Given Default (LGD) and the Exposure at Default (EAD).
ECL = PD x LGD x EAD
c)	 Modification of contracts 
The Group rarely renegotiates or otherwise modifies the contractual cash 
flows of securities. When this happens, the Group assesses whether or not 
the new terms are substantially different to the original terms. The Group 
does this by considering, among others, the following factors:
	»
If the counterparty is in financial difficulty
	»
Whether any substantial new terms are introduced that affect the risk 
profile of the instrument
	»
Significant extension of the contract term when the borrower is not in 
financial difficulty
	»
Significant change in interest rate
	»
Change in the currency the security is denominated in
	»
Inclusion of collateral, other security or credit enhancements that 
significantly affect the credit risk associated with the loan
If the terms are substantially different, the Group derecognises the original 
financial asset and recognises a ‘new’ asset at fair value and recalculates a 
new EIR for the asset. The date of renegotiation is consequently considered 
the date of initial recognition for impairment calculation purposes, including 
the purpose of determining whether a SIICR has occurred. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3 	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments (Continued)
ii)	  Debt instruments (Continued)
b)	 Impairment (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
98
If the terms are not substantially different and the renegotiation or 
modification does not result in derecognition, the Group recalculates the 
gross carrying amount based on the revised cash flows of the financial asset 
and recognises a modification gain or loss in profit or loss. The new gross 
carrying amount is recalculated by discounting the modified cash flows at 
the original EIR.
d)	 	Write off policy
The Group writes off financial assets, in whole or in part when it has 
exhausted all practical recovery effort and has concluded that there is no 
reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable 
expectation of recovery include (i) ceasing enforcement activity; and (ii) the 
Group is foreclosing on collateral and the value of the collateral is such as 
there is no reasonable expectation of recovering in full.
The Group may write-off financial assets that are still subject to enforcement 
activity. The Group still seeks to recover amounts it is legally owed in full, 
but which have been partially written off due to no reasonable expectation 
of full recovery
3.11 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents 
include cash on hand and demand deposits and other short term liquid 
investments which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and 
which were within three months of maturity when acquired, less advances 
from banks repayable within three months from the dates of the advances.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3 	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)
3.10 Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii)	  Debt instruments  (Continued)
c)	 Modification of contracts (Continued)
3.12 Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current income tax and 
deferred income tax.
Current income tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.  Taxable 
profit differs from profit as reported in the statement of profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income because of items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or 
deductible.  The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting 
period.
Management establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.  
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which those deductible temporary differences are utilised. 
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from good will or from the initial recognition (other than 
in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction 
that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying 
amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period 
and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates 
that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the 
asset realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted by the end of the 
reporting period. 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
99
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax 
consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group 
expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying 
amount of its assets and liabilities.
Current and deferred income tax for the year
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they 
relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in 
other comprehensive income.
3.13 Employee entitlements
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to 
employees. A provision is made for the estimated liability for annual leave 
as a result of services rendered by employees up to the date of reporting.
3.14 Segmental reporting
The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the 
information that is internally provided to the Executive Committee. An 
operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business 
activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including 
revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s 
other components. Costs in the NSE are managed holistically across the 
Exchange and variances against budget are closely monitored. 
3.15 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a defined contribution provident scheme for all its 
employees.  The scheme is administered by CPF Financial Services and is 
funded by contributions from both the Group and employees. The Group 
also contributes to a statutory contribution pension scheme, the National 
Social Security Fund (NSSF). The Group’s obligations under the scheme are 
limited to specific contributions legislated from time to time. The Group’s 
contributions to these schemes are charged to the profit or loss in the year 
in which they relate.
3.16 Dividends payable
Dividends payable on ordinary shares are charged to retained earnings in 
the period in which they are declared. Proposed dividends are not accrued 
for until ratified in an Annual General Meeting.
3.17 Earnings per share
The Group presents earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary 
shareholders in the financial statements. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing 
the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the NSE by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. 
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to 
ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding adjusted for the effects of all potentially dilutive shares.
3.18 Share capital and share premium
The share capital and premium of the Company includes balances relating to 
the Company’s ordinary equity shares and own shares held by the Employee 
Share Ownership Plan (ESOP).
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction 
from equity, net of any tax effects, from the proceeds.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)
3.12 Taxation (Continued)
Deferred income tax  (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
100
3.19 Employee Shares Ownership Plan (ESOP) 
The Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc ESOP - Unit Trust (the “ESOP”) was 
established by Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc, the sponsor, on 25 June 2019 
to enable participation of its employees in the ownership of the Company. 
The ESOP was set up as a Unit Trust with the principal objective or acquiring 
and holding shares of the Company for the benefit of its employees as 
governed by the Trust Deed. The ESOP commenced operations on 24 May 
2021.
Allocation of shares to the ESOP is subject to the Company’s bonus scheme 
policy where part of the eligible employees’ bonuses are used to purchase 
the shares at a discount to the prevailing market price of the shares  with 
a discount of 20%. The shares so purchased are settled in the ESOP and 
corresponding units are created and allocated to the eligible employees. 
The units have a three year vesting period. Upon vesting, the unitholders are 
entitled the full economic benefits relating to the vested units and can take 
the following actions with respect to the shares corresponding to the units 
that have vested:
»	
Sell the shares in the open market;
»	
Transfer the shares from the ESOP to their respective Central 	 	
	
	
Depository System (CDS) account; or
»	
Leave the shares within the ESOP and enjoy the economic benefits 	
	
	
of those shares as any other shareholder.
When the Company issues new shares to the ESOP to satisfy vesting of 
specific employee share schemes, the share capital of the Company is 
increased by the par value of these own shares. These shares may be issued at 
a subscription price above par value, reflecting the premium payable by the 
participant in the ESOP. The subscription price is the quoted closing market 
price of the NSE share on the day of issuing the shares. In such instances, 
the share capital of the Company is increased by the par value of these own 
shares and the difference between the subscription price and the par value 
of the own share is recorded in share premium. The total value of the shares 
issued at subscription price is purchased by employees using bonus and is 
therefore included in expenses.
3.20 Minimum liquid net worth requirement 
The Capital Markets (Derivatives Market) Regulations, 2015 clause 15 (1) and 
15 (2) require that a futures exchange have and maintain a minimum liquid 
net-worth equal to one half of the estimated gross operating costs of the 
futures exchange for the next twelve (12) month period or such other liquid 
net-worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. The requirement 
is met as per Note 37.
3.21 Comparatives
Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform to 
changes in the presentation in the current year.
In accordance with IAS 1 Section 41 and 46, the Group has made changes 
to the presentation of its financial statements to provide information that 
is reliable and more relevant to users of the financial statements and the 
revised structure is likely to continue, so comparability is not impaired. 
Comparative amounts have been reclassified and changes in presentation 
of the comparative figures have been made to:
i.	
The face of the profit or loss statement where a more detailed breakdown 
of the major items of revenues   and expenses have been provided.  
ii.	 Impairment losses determined in accordance with IFRS 9 ECL model and 
bonds mark to market  valuation have been presented separately on the 
face of the statement of profit or loss as it is material.
iii.	 Statement of cashflows - the group presents its statement of cash 
flows in accordance with the indirect  method. However, the face of 
the statement of cash flows had been presented to include a gross 
total cash flow from operating activities from a note reference which 
outlined the detail. The group has therefore enhanced the current year’s 
presentation to align the presentation with the requirements of IAS 7: 
18(b) in which the directors have included additional line items to the 
face of the statement of cash flows in order to meet this requirement. 
In addition, the statement of cash flows has been amended to align with 
IAS 7 on the classification of cash and cash equivalents.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
3 	 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
101
4   ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES 	
	
     OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINITY
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management 
makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgments 
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other 
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas of judgment and estimation in applying the entities accounting 
policies are dealt with below:
Taxes
The Group is subjected to numerous taxes and levies by various government 
and quasi- government regulatory bodies. As a rule of thumb, the Group 
recognises liabilities for the anticipated tax/levies payable with utmost care 
and diligence. However, judgment is usually required in the interpretation 
and applicability of those taxes/levies. Should it come to the attention of 
management, in one way or the other, that the initially recorded liability was 
erroneous, such differences will impact on the income and liabilities in the 
period in which such differences are determined. 
Valuation of land and building
The fair value model has been applied in accounting for land and building. 
The Group commissioned external, independent and professionally qualified 
real estate valuers that hold recognised relevant professional qualification 
and have recent experience in the location and type of property valued to 
determine the fair value of the property as at 31 December 2022 and 2021 
on the basis of open market value. The current use of the portion of the land 
and building accounted for as investment property equates to the highest 
and best use. 
The valuation of the land and building is based on the net income approach. 
The Group’s land and building are valued by reference to a level 2 fair value 
measurement. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
5  OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group entities are all domiciled in Kenya. The Group has two main 
business segments based at Group level and company:
	»
Cash equities and interest rate market segment comprises the equities 
and bond trading business. This includes other income comprising broker 
back office income, rental income, data fees and other incomes; and
	»
Derivatives market segment comprises of the futures trading business.
Each business segment offers different products and services and is managed 
separately because each requires different technology and a different 
marketing strategy. The information provided about each segment is based 
on the internal reports about segment profit or loss, assets and other 
information, which are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and 
the Board. The segment results were as follows:

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
102
     Statement of financial position
Cash equities and interest rate market
Sh’000
Derivatives market
Sh’000
Total
Sh’000
2022
ASSETS
Government securities
 458,990 
 - 
 458,990
Long-term restricted investments
-
 145,314 
 145,314 
Short-term restricted cash and investments
 296,470
 - 
 296,470 
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
 85,748
 13 
 85,761 
Other assets
 1,039,135
 8,019 
 1,047,154
________
________
_________
1,880,343
153,346
2,033,689
=======
=======
=======
LIABILITIES
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contribution
-
11,750
11,750
Trade and other payables 
59,210
4,363
63,573
Dividends payable
57,109
-
57,109
Tenant deposits
2,215
-
2,215
Trading members’ contributions
-
2,000
2,000
________
_______
_________
118,534
18,113
136,647
=======
=======
=======
2021
ASSETS
Government securities
365,598
-
365,598
Long-term restricted investments
-
144,333
144,333
Short-term restricted cash and investments
238,652
-
238,652
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
416,354
1,855
418,209
Other assets
1,039,794
7,806
1,047,600
_________
________
_________
2,060,398
153,994
2,214,392
=======
=======
========
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
5   OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
103
Cash equities and interest rate market
Sh’000
Derivatives market
Sh’000
Total
Sh’000
LIABILITIES
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contribution
-
11,750
11,750
Trade and other payables 
42,041
4,186
46,227
Dividends payable
67,070
-
67,070
Tenant deposits
2,216
-
2,216
Trading members’ contributions
-
1,800
1,800
________
________
_________
111,327
17,736
129,063
=======
=======
========
2022
Additions to non-current assets
141,356
986
142,342
=======
=======
=======
Non-current assets
1,064,140
145,319
1,209,459
=======
=======
=======
2021
Additions to non-current assets
(72,279)
(31,025)
(103,304)
=======
=======
=======
Non-current assets
922,784
144,333
1,067,117
=======
=======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
5   OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
104
Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 
Cash equities and 
interest rate market
Derivatives
market
Total 
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000 
2022
Revenue (Note 6)
506,754
-
506,754
Interest income
92,248
12,128
104,376
Other income
31,538
96
31,634
________
________
________
Total income
630,540
12,224
642,764
Administrative expenses 
554,615
3,806
558,421
Share of loss of associate
46,544
-
46,544
________
________
________
Profit before income tax
29,381
8,418
37,799
=======
=======
=======
2021
 
Revenue (Note 6)
550,593
-
550,593
Interest income
94,078
11,674
105,752
Other income
55,934
1,988
57,922
________
________
________
Total income
700,605
13,662
714,267
Administrative expenses 
489,022
10,988
500,010
Share of loss of associate
3,389
-
3,389
________
________
________
Profit before income tax
208,194
2,674
210,868
=======
=======
=======
All revenues are earned in Kenya. There are no revenues derived from transactions with a single external customer that amounted to 10% or more of the Group’s revenues.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
5   OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
105
 
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
6 REVENUE
Revenue recognized at a point in time
Transaction levy - equities
225,838
329,777
225,838
329,777
Transaction levy - bonds
79,380
66,988
79,380
66,988
Initial listing fees
5,175
5,300
5,175
5,300
Application and additional listing fees
1,505
981
1,505
981
Unquoted securities platform fees
6,463
5,958
-
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
318,361
409,004
311,898
403,046
_______
_______
_______
_______
Revenue recognized over time
Annual listing fees
64,495
65,760
64,495
65,760
Broker back-office subscription
29,656
23,377
29,656
23,377
Market access fees
694
-
694
-
Data vending income
93,548
52,452
93,548
52,452
_______
_______
_______
_______
188,393
141,589
188,393
141,589
_______
_______
_______
_______
506,754
550,593
500,291
544,635
======
======
======
  ======
7 PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX
The profit before income tax is arrived at after 
charging/(crediting):
Employee benefits (note 8)
177,359
171,841
177,359
171,841
Depreciation of property and equipment (note 12)
26,214
29,512
26,213
29,511
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 14)
22,298
25,403
22,298
25,403
Directors’ emoluments: 
- Executive (note 32 (a))
31,475
26,812
31,475
26,812
- Non–executive (note 32 (a))
15,814
16,794
15,557
16,280
Auditor’s remuneration 
4,914
4,841
3,866
3,671
(Loss)/gain on disposal of equipment
(644)
1,443
(644)
1,443
Employee staff ownership plan expenses
1,811
1,030
1,811
1,030
Increase in impairment of financial 
assets measured at amortised cost (note 35 (b) (iii))
62
5,846
929
4,658
======
======
======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
106
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
8
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Salaries and wages
151,514
142,604
151,514
142,604
Bonus
7,508
11,647
7,508
11,647
Leave pay expense
4,661
3,511
4,661
3,511
Provident fund contribution
13,575
13,842
13,575
13,842
Social security costs (NSSF)
101
237
101
237
_______
_______
_______
_______
177,359
171,841
177,359
171,841
======
======
======
======
The staff numbers as at 31 December 2022 were 
44 (2021: 49). 
9
INTEREST INCOME
Interest on term deposits
46,666
55,834
32,590
43,962
Interest on treasury bonds 
56,828
48,953
56,828
48,953
Interest on staff loans and advances
882
965
882
965
_______
_______
_______
_______
104,376
105,752
90,300
93,880
======
======
======
======
10 OTHER INCOME
Rental income
6,337
9,069
6,337
9,069
Miscellaneous income
1,376
1,071
1,376
1,071
Training fees
6,580
2,479
6,580
2,480
Private transfer fee
1,146
931
1,146
931
Nomad fees
350
375
350
375
Gain on disposal of equipment
-
2,458
-
2,458
Annual members fees 
4,450
3,350
4,450
3,350
Ibuka fees
50
1,670
50
1,670
Surplus distributed by SGF
-
-
5,691
7,277
Management fees
2,005
-
3,293
1,325
IPF levy
25
58
-
-
Margin interest
71
113
-
-
Exchange gain
3,134
500
3,134
500
Derivatives fees
63
142
63
142
Equity levies market making
-
755
-
755
_______
_______
_______
_______
25,587
22,971
32,470
31,403
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
107
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
11 TAXATION
a)	
Taxation charge
Current income tax
Current year expense
35,572
72,190
32,986
68,999
Prior year tax under provision
78
-
957
-
______
_______
_______
______
35,650
72,190
33,943
68,999
______
_______
_______
______
Deferred income tax (note 20)
Current year (credit)/charge
(11,969)
854
(12,152)
2,306
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
680
5,290
-
-
Prior year deferred tax under provision
(286)
-
-
-
_____
_______
_______
______
	
(11,575)
6,144
(12,152)
2,306
______
_______
_______
______
24,075
78,334
21,791
71,305
======
======
======
======
b)	 Reconciliation of taxation charge to the expected tax based on accounting profit
Profit before income tax
37,799
210,868
61,112
214,624
======
======
======
======
Tax calculated at a tax rate of 30% (2021: 30%)
11,340
63,260
18,334
64,387
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
18,756
10,913
13,074  
8,047
Net tax effects on items not deductible for tax
(11,783)
(1,129)
(10,574)  
(1,129)
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
5,970
5,290
-
-
Prior year deferred tax under provision
(286)
-
-
-
Prior year tax under provision
78
-
957
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
Income tax expense
24,075
78,334
21,791
71,305
======
======
=====
======

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
108
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
11 TAXATION (Continued)
c)	
Current income tax movement
At start of year
(32,423)
(19,222)
(27,248)
(15,405)
Charge to profit or loss
35,650
72,190
33,943
68,999
Tax paid
(97,362)
(85,391)
(94,583)
(80,842)
_______
_______
_______
_______
At end of year
(94,135)
(32,423)
(87,888)
(27,248)
======
======
======
======
Made up of:
Current income tax recoverable
(94,432)
(32,511)
(87,888)
(27,248)
Current income tax payable
297
88
-
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
(94,135)
(32,423) 
(87,888)
(27,248)
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
109
Building 
Motor 
vehicles
Furniture 
& fittings
Office 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
WIP
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
COST OR VALUATION 
At 1 January 2021
126,900
17,392
89,399
41,472
89,695
-
364,858
Additions
-
-
-
1,367
500
3,661
5,528
Disposals
-
(4,620)
-
(1,948)
(19,020)
-
(25,588)
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
At 1 January 2022
126,900
12,772
89,399
40,891
71,175
3,661
344,798
Additions
-
-
82
1,561
5,921
-
7,564
Disposals
-
-
(2,298)
(1,647)
(1,482)
-
(5,427)
Transfer from WIP
-
-
-
-
3,661
(3,661)
-
Revaluation loss
(12,691)
-
-
-
-
-
(12,691)
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
At 31 December 2022
114,209
12,772
87,183
40,805
79,275
-
334,244
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
Comprising:
At valuation
114,209
-
-
-
-
-
114,209
At cost
-
12,772
87,183
40,805
79,275
-
220,035
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
Cost or valuation
114,209
12,772
87,183
40,805
79,275
-
334,244
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 2021
-
9,415
71,171
26,227
61,606
-
168,419
Charge for the year
-
3,578
8,871
6,745
10,318
-
29,512
Eliminated on disposal
-
(3,946)
-
(1,623)
(18,946)
-
(24,515)
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
At 1 January 2022
-
9,047
80,042
31,349
52,978
-
173,416
Charge for the year
2,778
3,193
2,561
6,473
11,209
-
26,214
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
(2,298)
(705)
(1,442)
-
(4,445)
Reversal on revaluation
(2,778)
-
-
-
-
-
(2,778)
______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
At 31 December 2022
-
12,240
80,305
37,117
62,745
-
192,407
______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2022
114,209
532
6,878
3,688
16,530
-
141,837
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======
At 31 December 2021
126,900
3,725
9,357
9,542
18,197
3,661
171,382
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
12  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT - GROUP

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
110
Building
Motor
 vehicles
Furniture &
 fittings
Office equipment
Computer 
equipment
WIP
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
COST OR VALUATION 
At 1 January 2021
126,900
17,392
89,399
41,468
89,695
-
364,854
Additions
-
-
-
1,367
500
3,661
5,528
Disposals
-
(4,620)
-
(1,948)
(19,020)
-
(25,588)
_______
______
______
______
______
_______
_______
At 1 January 2022
126,900
12,772
89,399
40,887
71,175
3,661
344,794
Additions
-
-
82
1,561
5,921
-
7,564
Disposals
-
-
(2,298)
(1,647)
(1,482)
-
(5,427)
Transfer from WIP
-
-
-
-
3,661
(3,661)
-
Revaluation loss
(12,691)
-
-
-
-
-
(12,691)
_______
______
______
______
______
_______
_______
At 31 December 2022
114,209
12,772
87,183
40,801
79,275
-
334,240
_______
______
______
______
______
_______
_______
Comprising:
At valuation
114,209
-
-
-
-
-
114,209
At cost
-
12,772
87,183
40,801
79,275
-
220,031
_______
______
______
______
______
_______
_______
Cost or valuation
114,209
12,772
87,183
40,801
79,275
-
334,240
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 2021
-
9,415
71,171
26,226
61,606
-
168,418
Charge for the year
-
3,578
8,871
6,744
10,318
-
29,511
Eliminated on disposal
-
(3,946)
-
(1,623)
(18,946)
-
(24,515)
_______
______
______
______
______
______
______
At 1 January 2022
-
9,047
80,042
31,347
52,978
-
173,414
Charge for the year
2,778
3,193
2,561
6,472
11,209
-
26,213
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
(2,298)
(705)
(1,442)
-
(4,445)
Reversal on revaluation
(2,778)
-
-
-
-
-
(2,778)
_______
______
______
______
______
______
______
At 31 December 2022
-
12,240
80,305
37,114
62,745
-
192,404
________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2022
114,209
532
6,878
3,687
16,530
-
141,836
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======
At 31 December 2021
126,900
3,725
9,357
9,540
18,197
3,661
171,380
=======
======
======
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
12  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT - COMPANY

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
111
No depreciation has been charged in arriving at the results for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated equipment with a cost of Sh 117.6 million (2021: 
Sh 115.9 million).
The building has been stated at its revalued amounts, being the fair value at 31 December 2022 less any subsequent depreciation. The revaluation was done on 
the basis of net income approach reflecting the highest and best use by Tysons Limited, an independent registered valuer.
13  INVESTMENT PROPERTY - GROUP AND COMPANY
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
VALUATION
At 1 January
313,100
313,100
Revaluation loss
(7,309)
-
_______
_______
At 31 December
305,791
313,100
======
======
The fair value of the Group’s investment property at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 have been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out 
at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 by Tysons Limited, an independent registered valuer. The fair value was adjusted for in the books of the Group 
and Company. The fair value was determined based on the net income approach. In estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best use of the 
properties is their current use. The valuation for 2021 was based on the market approach while 2022 is based on net income approach.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
12  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) - GROUP AND COMPANY

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
112
The following table gives information about how the fair values of these non-financial assets are determined (in particular, the valuation technique(s) and 
inputs used).
Sh’000
Fair value hierarchy
Valuation technique(s) and 
key inputs
Significant unobservable 
inputs
Relationship of 
unobservable inputs to fair 
value
At 31 December 2022
Buildings
114,209
Level 2
Income capitalization 
method - Highest and best 
use
Capitalisation rate, 
taking into account the 
capitalisation of rental 
income potential, nature of 
the property, and prevailing 
market condition, of 7.5% 
A slight increase in the 
capitalisation rate used 
would result in a significant 
decrease in fair value, and 
vice versa
Investment
property
305,791
Level 2
_______
Total
420,000
======
At 31 December 2021
Buildings
126,900
Level 2
Market comparable 
approach - Highest and best 
use
Market prices for 
undeveloped land, taking 
into account the differences 
in location and individual 
factors, such as frontage 
and size, between the 
comparables and the 
property, of Shs 450 million 
- Shs 680 million weighted 
average per acre.
A slight increase in the 
market price used would 
result in a significant 
increase in fair value, and 
vice versa
Investment
property
313,100
Level 2
_______
 
Total
440,000
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
13 INVESTMENT PROPERTY - GROUP AND COMPANY(Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
113
14  INTANGIBLE ASSETS - GROUP AND COMPANY
.
Automated trading
system software
Other software
Broker back 
office software
Bond software 
license
Derivatives  
software
WIP
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
COST
At 1 January 2021
80,016
43,414
75,195
38,191
54,338
1,671
292,825
Additions
63
513
2,756
-
-
316
3,648
Disposals
-
(8,521)
-
-
-
-
(8,521)
Transfer from WIP
-
1,672
-
-
-
(1,672)
-
________
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
_______
At 1 January 2022
80,079
37,078
77,951
38,191
54,338
315
287,952
Additions
211
2,910
-
-
-
2,080
5,201
Disposals
-
(1,257)
-
-
-
-
(1,257)
________
_______
________
________
________
________
________
At 31 December 2022
80,290
38,731
77,951
38,191
54,338
2,395
291,896
________
_______
_______
_______
________
_______
_______
AMORTISATION
At 1 January 2021
9,327
30,205
58,552
38,191
8,000
-
144,275
Amortisation for the year 
8,006
4,352
7,611
-
5,434
-
25,403
Eliminated on disposal
-
(7,943)
-
-
-
-
(7,943)
_______
______
_______
_______
________
_______
_______
At 1 January 2022
17,333
26,614
66,163
38,191
13,434
-
161,735
Amortisation for the year 
8,027
4,466
4,371
-
5,434
-
22,298
Eliminated on disposal
-
(497)
-
-
-
-
(497)
_______
______
_______
_______
________
_______
_______
At 31 December 2022
25,360
30,583
70,534
38,191
18,868
-
183,536
_______
______
_______
_______
________
_______
_______
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2022
54,930
8,148
7,417
-
35,470
2,395
108,360
======
=====
======
======
======
======
======
At 31 December 2021
62,746
10,464
11,788
-
40,904
315
126,217
======
=====
======
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
114
No amortisation has been charged in arriving at the results for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated intangible assets with a cost of Kshs. 120.6 million  	
(2021: Kshs. 53.9 million).
The WIP at the end of the year comprises mainly work done on automation processes (Kshs. 1.86 million) and interface with Central Bank of Kenya bond system (Kshs. 
0.54 million).
Key intangibles not fully amortised in the year includes: ATS costs of Kshs. 68.3 million (remaining useful life of 6.7 years), other software costs of Kshs. 5.1 million 
(remaining useful life of 5.8 years), BBO software cost of Kshs. 14 million (remaining useful life of 3.5 years) and derivatives software cost of Kshs. 54.3 million 
(remaining useful life of 6.5 years). 	
15 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE 
The investment in associate represents an investment in Central Depository & Settlement Corporation Limited (CDSC). The Group held an ownership percentage of 
40.5% at 31 December 2022 (2021: 40.5%). The proportion of the voting rights in the associate held by the Company does not differ from the proportion of ordinary 
shares held. 
  a)  Details of the associate at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Country of incorporation 
and operation
Number of shares held 
by NSE @ Sh 100 per share
Proportion of ownership interest 
and voting power held by NSE
Group
2022
2021
2022
2021
CDSC
Kenya
708,750
708,750
40.5%
40.5%
=======
=======
======
======
Company
CDSC
Kenya
393,750
393,750
22.5%
22.5%
=======
=======
======
======
The principal activity of the associate is provision of automated clearing, delivery and settlement facilities in respect of transactions carried out at the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange PLC.
The Group’s shareholding in AKS Nominees Ltd is 88.8% (2021: 88.8%) as disclosed in note 16. AKS Nominees holds an 18% shareholding in the ordinary shares 
of the CDSC in 2022 (2021: 18%).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
14  INTANGIBLE ASSETS - GROUP AND COMPANY (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
115
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
b)   The movement in the balance is as follows:	 	
	
	
At start of year 
236,752
287,667
112,619
140,905
Share of loss for the year (note 15 (e))
(46,544)
(3,389)
(25,806)
(1,910)
Share of other comprehensive (loss)/Income for the year (note 15(e))
(1,933)
108
(1,074)
60
Dividends received
-
(47,634)
-
(26,436)
_______
_______
_______
_______
At end of year
188,275
236,752
85,739
112,619
======
======
======
======
c)    Summarised financial information in respect of the associate is set out below : 
Non current assets
344,738
249,575
344,738
249,575
Current assets
146,822
365,628
146,822
365,628
________
________
________
________
Total assets
491,560
615,203
491,560
615,203
_______
________
________
________
Non current labilities
(53,207)
(64,245)
(53,207)
(64,245)
Current liabilities
(57,290)
(50,428)
(57,290)
(50,428)
_______
_______
_______
________
Total liabilities 
(110,497)
(114,673)
(110,497)
(114,673)
_______
_______
_______
_______
Net assets
381,063
500,530
381,063
500,530
======
======
======
======
Group’s share of net assets of associate
(note 15 (d))
154,331
202,715
85,739
112,619
======
======
======
======
Total revenue for the year
241,422
316,724
241,422
316,724
======
======
======
======
Other comprehensive loss for the year
(108,083)
(8,217)
(108,083)
(8,217)
=======
======
======
======
Total comprehensive loss for the year
(112,855)
(7,949)
(112,855)
(7,949)
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
15 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
116
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
d)   Reconciliation of share of net assets of associate to investment in associate
Share of net assets (note 15(c))
154,331
202,715
85,739
112,619
Goodwill 
33,944
34,037
-
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
Balance on statement of financial position
188,275
236,752
85,739
112,619
======
======
======
======
e)   Share of loss of associate:
Company
Being the direct shareholding at 22.5% (2021 – 22.5%)
Share of loss of associate 
(24,202)
(1,910)
(24,202)
(1,910)
Adjustment of share of gain to associate on sale of  subsidiary
(1,604)
-
(1,604)
-
Share of other comprehensive (loss)/income 
(1,074)
60
(1,074)
60
_______
_______
_______
_______
(26,880)
(1,850)
(26,880)
(1,850)
======
======
======
======
Group
Being the direct shareholding at 22.5% (2021: 22.5%) (as computed for Company above) 
and the indirect shareholding at 18% from the acquisition date (2021 – 18%)
Indirect shareholding at 18% (2021 – 18%)
Share of loss of associate 
(19,455)
(1,479)
-
-
Adjustment of share of gain to associate on sale of subsidiary
(1,283)
-
-
-
Share of other comprehensive (loss)/income 
(859)
48
-
-
________
_______
________
________
(21,597)
(1,431)
-
-
=======
======
=======
=======
Total group share of loss and OCI at 40.5% (2021 – 40.5%)
Total share of loss of associate 
(46,544)
(3,389)
(25,806)
(1,910)
Total share of other comprehensive (loss)/ income 
(1,933)
108
(1,074)
60
________
_______
________
________
(48,477)
(3,281)
(26,880)
(1,850)
=======
======
=======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
15 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
117
Principal activity
Holding
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
Investment in subsidiaries
Investment in NSE Clear Limited (note a)
Clearing house
100%
20,000
20,000
Investment in AKS Nominees Ltd (note b)
Investment
88.8%
111,899
111,899
_______
_______
131,899
131,899
________
_______
Investment in structured entities (note c):
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
Settlement guarantee fund
100,000
100,000
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
Investor protection fund
10,000
10,000
_______
_______
110,000
110,000
________
________
241,899
241,899
=======
=======
	
	
	
	
	
	
a)   Investment in subsidiary – NSE Clear Limited
NSE Clear Limited was incorporated as a limited liability company on 4 February 2014 under the Companies Act (Cap. 486) with a share capital of Kenya 
Shillings One Hundred Thousand (Sh 100,000) divided into One Hundred (100) ordinary shares of Kenya Shillings One Thousand (Sh 1,000) each. It is a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. The subsidiary is domiciled in Kenya.
The principal objectives of the subsidiary are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to provide clearing and settlement services for 
transactions in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative securities transactions 
and to carry out all activities that pertain to a clearing house.
b)   Investment in subsidiary – AKS Nominees Ltd
The Group shareholding in AKS Nominees Ltd (AKS) is 88.8% (2021: 88.8%) for a total consideration paid to date of Sh 112 million. AKS holds an 18% 
shareholding in the ordinary shares of the CDSC in 2022 (2021 – 18%).
The principal activity of the subsidiary is holding equity shares in CDSC in trust for its members who are authorised to operate as stockbrokers and investment 
banks in the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
16  INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES - COMPANY

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
118
c)   Investment in structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to 
the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) Derivatives Rules. The main purpose of the Settlement 
Guarantee Fund is to settle specified claims by derivatives members arising out of transactions in derivative securities.
The NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under the Trustee Act (Cap.167) pursuant to the 
Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015, the NSE Investor Protection Fund Rules and the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) Compensation 
Rules and Procedures. The main purpose for the Investor Protection Fund is to satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out non-settlement of 
obligations owed to them by trading members or losses incurred by reason of the default of trading members.
d)   Non-controlling interest (NCI)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
The total NCI at 31 December 2022 is Sh 17,366,000 (2021: Sh 17,518,000) all of which relates to AKS Nominees Limited at 11% shareholding (2021: 11%).
The following table summarises the financial information relating to the Group’s company that has significant non-controlling interest.
 
2022
2021
e)   Investment in subsidiary and structured entities - Group
Sh’000
Sh’000
Total assets
158,714
160,406
Total liabilities
(1,202)
(1,535)
_______
_______
Net assets
157,512
158,871
======
======
Revenue
1,567
21,346
======
======
(Loss)/profit before tax
(889)
20,367
Taxation
(470)
(59)
_______
_______
Total comprehensive (loss)/income
(1,359)
20,308
======
======
Reconciliation of NCI
Movement in the non-controlling interest is as follows:
At start of the year
17,518
15,509
NCI’s share of (loss)/profit 
(152)
2,009
_______
_______
At end of the year
17,366
17,518
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
16  INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES - COMPANY (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
119
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
17  FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME - QUOTED EQUITY        
      INSTRUMENTS – GROUP AND COMPANY
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
At start of year
75,333
48,720
Fair value gain through other comprehensive income
31,496
26,613
_______
_______
At end of year
106,829
75,333
======
======
Quoted ordinary shares at fair value through other comprehensive income are classified as non-current assets. At the year end, these are valued at the closing 
market share price at the Dar-Es-Salaam stock exchange on the last day of trading of the year. 
18  LONG-TERM RESTRICTED INVESTMENTS – GROUP 
Fixed deposit and interest capitalized held with the Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited and maturing within 180 days in the name of:
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
NSE Clear Limited
20,011
20,005
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
113,954
114,064
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
11,389
11,879
________
________
145,354
145,948
Less: provision for expected credit losses (note 35 (b)(ii))
(40)
(1,615)
________
________
145,314
144,333
=======
=======
The restricted investments relate to the seed capital contributions by the NSE on 19 August 2015 to the NSE Clear Limited, the NSE Derivatives Settlement 
Guarantee Fund (SGF) and the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) of Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million and Sh 10 million respectively towards their 
operations. The funds are invested in a fixed deposit on a rolling basis.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
120
19  GOVERNMENT SECURITIES – GROUP AND COMPANY
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
a)    At amortised cost – maturing over one year
Treasury bonds held at amortised cost
201,431
-
Less: provision for expected credit losses (note 35 (b)(ii)) 
(2,753)
-
Unamortised balance
3,937
-
________
________
202,615
-
=======
=======
The weighted average effective interest rate on the treasury bonds at amortised cost for the year ended 31 December 2022 was 13.7% (2021: Nil).
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
b)    At fair value through profit or loss – maturing over one year
Treasury bonds held for trading
265,971
375,627
Less: provision for expected credit losses (note 35 (b)(ii))
(3,562)
(6,386)
Unamortised balance
1,653
2,708
Unrealised fair value loss at year end
(7,687)
(6,351)
________
________
256,375
365,598
=======
=======
The weighted average effective interest rate on the treasury bonds at fair value through profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2022 was 8.2% (2021: 
14.4%). 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
121
20  DEFERRED TAX
Deferred income tax is calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method using a principal tax rate of 30% (2021: 30%) The net deferred tax 
asset is attributable to the following items:
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Accelerated capital allowances 
2,982
(4,399)
2,982
(4,399)
Straight-lined rental income
(660)
(693)
(660)
(693)
Unrealized foreign exchange gain
782
65
782
65
Leave provision
798
441
798
441
Tax losses
5,968
5,710
-
-
Provision for expected credit losses
4,232
4,095
4,225
3,934
Fair value loss on bond instruments at FVTPL
2,306
1,894
2,306
1,895
Treasury bond amortization
-
(2,960)
-
(2,960)
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
(5,970)
(5,290)
-
-
_______
______
_______
_______
10,438
(1,137)
10,433
(1,719)
======
=====
======
======
The movement in the deferred income tax asset is as follows:
At start of year
(1,137)
5,007
(1,719)
587
Credit/(charge) to profit or loss (note 11 (a))
11,969
(854)
12,152
(2,306)
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized (note 11 (a))
(680)
(5,290)
-
-
Prior year deferred tax under provision (note 11 (a))
286
-
-
-
_______
______
_______
_______
At end of year
10,438
(1,137)
10,433
(1,719)
======
======
======
======
The deferred tax asset has been recognised in the year as it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised. There are no tax laws which restrict the sources of taxable profits against which the Group may make deductions on the reversal of that 
deductible temporary difference.
The potential deferred tax asset not recognized relates to the tax losses incurred by the subsidiaries and Funds as it is not probable that taxable profit will be 
available in the short term against which the unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilized.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
122
21  TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
a)    Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables
26,201
42,228
26,201
42,228
Prepayments and deposits
29,582
22,478
29,582
22,478
Staff loans and advances
12,374
8,594
12,374
8,594
Due from African Securities Exchange Association
1,130
4,855
1,130
4,855
Other receivables
11,711
4,110
10,946
4,110
Due from trading member on the market making fund
8,026
10,012
8,026
10,012
Amount due from associate (note 32 (e))
7,140
-
7,140
-
Clearing balances
1,550
2,984
-
-
________
________
________
________
97,714
95,261
95,399
92,277
Less: Provision for expected credit losses (note (b))
(6,225)
(2,868)
(5,468)
(2,868)
________
________
________
________
91,489
92,393
89,931
89,409
=======
=======
=======
=======
b)    Provision for expected credit losses
Movements in provisions for expected credit 
losses were as follows:
At start of the year
2,868
9,413
2,868
9,413
Charge in the year
3,357
458
2,600
458
Recovered in the year
-
(2,845)
-
(2,845)
Written off in the year
-
(4,518)
-
(4,518)
________
________
________
________
At end of year (note a)) and note (35 (b)(ii))
6,225
2,868
5,468
2,868
=======
=======
=======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
123
22  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM RESTRICTED CASH & INVESTMENTS
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Call deposits
83,138
32,714
83,138
32,714
Fixed deposits
290,695
601,297
262,749
585,409
_______
_______
_______
_______
Total short-term deposits (note 23)
373,833
634,011
345,887
618,123
Bank and cash balances
10,720
26,821
9,976
15,223
_______
_______
_______
_______
Less provision for expected credit losses on: (note 35 (b)(ii))
Call and fixed deposits (note 23)
(2,193)
(3,630)
(2,175)
(3,575)
Bank balances
(129)
(341)
(127)
(326)
_______
_______
_______
_______
382,231
656,861
353,561
629,445
======
======
======
======
Split into:
Short-term restricted investments (note 37)
296,470
238,652
296,470
238,652
Cash and cash equivalents
78,797
374,443
57,091
362,860
Fixed deposits – maturity of three months to six months
6,964
43,766
-
27,933
_______
_______
_______
_______
382,231
656,861
353,561
629,445
======
======
======
======
For purposes of statement of cashflows, cash and cash equivalents is made up as follows:
Cash and bank balances 
10,591
26,480
9,849 
14,897 
Fixed deposits – maturity within three months (note 23)
241,083
586,615
220,119
586,615
_______
_______
_______
_______
Total cash and cash equivalents
251,674
613,095
229,968
601,512
Fixed deposits – maturity of three months to six months (note 23)
130,557
43,766
123,593
27,933
_______
_______
_______
_______
382,231
656,861
353,561
629,445
======
======
======
======
 	
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
124
23  SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Maturing within three months:
Fixed deposits
158,166
557,382
137,189
557,382
Call deposits
83,138
32,714
83,138
32,714
________
_______
________
_______
241,304
590,096
220,327
590,096
Less: Provision for expected credit losses
(221)
(3,481)
(208)
(3,481)
________
_______
________
_______
241,083
586,615
220,119
586,615
======
======
=======
======
Maturing after three months to six months:
Fixed deposits
132,529
43,915
125,560
28,027
Less: provision for expected credit losses
(1,972)
(149)
(1,967)
(94)
________
_______
________
_______
130,557
43,766
123,593
27,933
=======
======
=======
======
Gross total - call and fixed deposits (note 22)
373,833
634,011
345,887
618,123
Total provision for expected credit losses
(2,193)
(3,630)
(2,175)
(3,575)
________
_______
________
_______
Net total - call and fixed deposits
371,640
630,381
343,712
614,548
=======
======
=======
======
The deposits are classified and measured at amortised cost.
The gross carrying deposits were held at the following institutions:
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
98,588
139,886
70,642
124,669
Equity Bank Kenya Limited
9,093
167,957
9,093
172,082
Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Limited
30,034
151,486
30,034
151,486
KCB Bank Kenya Limited
43,360
-
43,360
-
NCBA Bank Kenya PLC
125,721
174,682
125,721
169,886
Family Bank Limited
30,020
-
30,020
-
ABSA Bank Kenya Plc
30,016
-
30,016
-
Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited
7,001
-
7,001
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
373,833
634,011
345,887
618,123
======
======
======
======
The weighted average effective interest rate on the deposits as at 31 December 2022 was 8.1%. (2021: 8.3%).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
125
24  SHARE CAPITAL
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Authorised share capital:
At start and end of year:
375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
========
========
========
========
Issued and fully paid up:
At start of the year:
260,004,320 ordinary shares (2021 - 259,500,791 ordinary shares) of Sh 4 each
1,040,017
1,038,003
1,040,017
1,038,003
Issue of 387,401 shares to the employees share ownership plan (2021 – 503,529 shares) of Sh 4 
each (note 26)
1,550
2,014
1,550
2,014
________
________
________
________
At end of year:
260,391,721 ordinary shares (2021 - 260,004,320 ordinary shares) of Sh 4 each
1,041,567
1,040,017
1,041,567
1,040,017
========
========
=======
========
25  SHARE PREMIUM
At start of the year
278,579
277,185
278,579
277,185
Issue of shares at a premium to the employees share ownership plan (note 26)
880
1,394
880
1,394
_______
_______
_______
_______
At end of year:
279,459
278,579
279,459
278,579
======
======
======
=======
The Board approved the allotment and issue of 387,401 ordinary shares (2021 – 503,529) at a market price of Sh 6.27 (2021- Sh 6.77) to the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP). A 
share premium of Kshs 880,000 (2021 – Kshs 1,394,000) has been recognised in share premium in the year in respect of these shares.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
126
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
26  EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN (ESOP)
During the year ended 31 December 2022, the activities in the ESOP were as follows: 
Number of units
Units in the ESOP – at start of year 
503,529
-
503,529
-
Units granted during the year  
387,401
503,529
387,401
503,529
Vested units sold during the year
(31,715)
-
(31,715)
-
Vested units transferred to unitholder
(29,140)
-
(29,140)
-
830,075
503,529
830,075
503,529
======
======
======
======
Total units vested in the year
127,854
-
127,854
-
======
======
======
======
Market price of units at date of grant - Sh 
7.84
8.46
7.84
8.46
======
======
======
======
Purchase price – Sh
6.27
6.77
6.27
6.77
======
======
======
======
Issue of units to ESOP at par – Sh’000 (note 24)
1,550
2,014
1,550
2,014
Issue of units to ESOP at premium – Sh’000 (note 25)
880
1,394
880
1,394
_______
_______
_______
_______
2,430
3,408
2,430
3,408
======
======
======
======
27  SETTLEMENT GUARANTEE FUND - MEMBER’S    
      CONTRIBUTIONS
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
11,750
11,750
-
-
======
======
======
======
The contribution was received in cash in 2019. This is a refundable contribution made by clearing members to the Settlement Guarantee Fund to cover any claims arising from non-
settlement of margins. Each clearing member’s contribution is currently at Shs 23.5 million. The balance of Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited contributions of Shs 11.75 million was 
provided through a bank guarantee of the same amount issued by KCB Bank Kenya Limited on 7th July 2022.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
127
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
28  TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
a)   Non-current portion
Tenant deposits
2,215
2,216
2,215
2,216
=====
======
=====
=====
b)   Current portion
Accrued expenses
27,974
18,937
22,468
14,707
Trade payables
12,849
11,524
12,849
11,524
Other payables*
14,126
8,797
14,126
8,797
Staff leave provision
2,660
1,469
2,660
1,469
Amount payable to Capital Markets Authority
2,249
1,688
2,249
1,688
Amount payable to associate (note 32(e))
95
100
95
100
Annual listing fees paid in advance 
1,500
-
1,500
-
Clearing balances
1,520
1,975
-
-
Contributions due to former trading members
600
-
-
-
_______
_______
_______
_______
63,573
44,490
55,947
38,285
======
======
======
======
* Other payables includes amounts paid in advance on broker back office fees, salary deductions and other miscellaneous payables due.
29  DIVIDENDS PAYABLE 	 	
	
	
	
The dividends payable represent the first and final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 up to 31 December 2022 not paid at year end for former brokers now 
under statutory management. The movement in dividends payable during the year was as follows: -	
	
	
	
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
At start of year
67,070
32,066
66,444
31,440
Declared amount for prior years
130,002
137,535
130,002
137,535
Special dividend declared in the year
104,002
130,002
104,002
130,002
Paid during the year
(243,965)
(232,533)
(243,339)
(232,533)
_______
_______
_______
_______
At end of year
57,109
67,070
57,109
66,444
=======
=======
======
======

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
128
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
30  CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before income tax
37,799
210,868
61,112
214,624
Adjustments for:
Depreciation (note 12)
26,214
29,512
26,213
29,511
Amortisation (note 14)
22,298
25,403
22,298
25,403
Share of loss of associate (note 15 (b)) 
46,544
3,389
25,806
1,910
Interest income (note 9)
(104,376)
(105,752)
(90,300)
(93,880)
Loss/(gain) on disposal of equipment 
644
(2,957)
644
(2,957)
Loss on disposal of intangible assets
-
491
-
491
Change in net assets of NSE LLP  
-
-
(5,842)
-
Issue of ESOP shares (note 26)
2,430
3,408
2,430
3,408
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes
(1,387)
(164)
(1,387)
(164)
Revaluation loss on property
17,222
-
17,222
-
Working capital changes:
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables
904
(22,741)
(522)
(21,737)
Decrease in short-term restricted cash and investments
-
4,836
-
4,836
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables
19,083
(5,589)
17,662
(8,336)
Decrease in tenant deposits
(1)
(1,017)
(1)
(1,017)
Movement in related party balances
-
-
75
(6,387)
(Decrease)/increase in trading members contributions
(400)
200
-
-
 
_______
_______
_______
_______
Cash generated from operations
66,974
139,887
75,410
145,705
======
======
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
129
31  EARNINGS PER SHARE - BASIC AND DILUTED	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the net profit per year to owners of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Net profit attributable to owners of the Group (Sh’000)
13,876
130,525
39,321
143,319
======
======
======
======
Number of shares at 31 December (in thousands)
260,391
260,004
260,391
260,004
======
======
======
======
Basic and diluted earnings per share – Sh
0.05
0.51
0.15
0.55
======
======
======
======
32  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The following transactions were carried out by the Group and Company with related parties at market rates. 
Group
Company
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
a)    Directors’ emoluments
Non – executive
Directors fees and sitting allowances (including committees)
15,814
16,794
15,557
16,280
Executive
31,475
26,812
31,475
26,812
_______
_______
_______
_______
Total directors’ remuneration
47,289
43,606
47,032
43,092
======
===== 
=====
=====
b)   Key management compensation
Group  and Company
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits
71,993
61,969
Other long term benefits
6,571
3,907
_______
_______
78,564
65,876
======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 	
	
	

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
130
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
32  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS ( Continued)
c)    Transactions with shareholders
The Group and Company are related to various parties by virtue of common shareholding. The shareholders exercise significant influence over the operations of the exchange. As at 
31 December 2022, the Group had 9 stockbrokers (2021:9) and 6 licensed investment banks (2021:6) who are shareholders. The transactions carried out during the year with the bro-
kers and investment banks who are related parties by virtue of shareholding are disclosed below: 
The Group charges investors, through the brokers, a transaction levy of 0.12% (31 December 2021: 0.12%) of the value of equity securities traded at the Exchange. During the 12 
months period ended 31 December 2022, the total turnover was Sh 89,758 million (31 December 2021: Sh 154,292 million) resulting in a transaction levy of Sh 108 million (31 Decem-
ber 2021: Sh 185 million). NSE also charges investors, through brokers, a transaction levy of 0.0035% (31 December 2021 – 0.0035%) of the value of fixed income securities traded 
at the Exchange. The turnover for fixed income securities for the 12 months period ended 31 December 2022 was Sh 979 billion (31 December 2021: Sh 1,302 billion), resulting in 
transaction levy of Sh 34 million (31 December 2021: Sh 45 million).
2022
2021
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Transaction levy on - equity securities
107,710
185,151
107,710
185,151
Transaction levy on - fixed income securities
34,272
45,563
34,272
45,563
Broker back office subscriptions
15,840
15,840
15,840
15,840
Data fee
1,778
1,766
1,778
1,766
Training
626
653
626
653
NOMAD fee
150
150
150
150
Annual membership fee
1,800
1,700
1,800
1,700
Ibuka
40
80
40
80
_______
_______
_______
_______
162,216
250,903
162,216
250,903
======
======
======
======

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
131
d)   Transactions with companies related to directors 
The Company’s memorandum and articles of association requires that trading participants and listed companies to have two representatives each on the Board. The transactions listed 
below were carried out during the period with companies who the aforementioned representatives are directors.  
Group and Company
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
i)    Stockbrokers and investment bank representatives
Transaction levy on - equity securities
31,343
32,218
Transaction levy on  - fixed income securities
7,717
8,344
Broker back office subscriptions
2,880
4,320
Training
40
380
NOMAD fees
50
75
Annual fee
400
600
Sponsorship fees
-
300
Ibuka fees
-
40
______
______
42,430
46,277
=====
=====
Allowances to broker company directors sitting on Committees but are not Group Directors    
-
43
=====
=====
ii)   Listed companies related to directors
Annual listing fees
4,500
4,500
Interest income on bank deposits
-
5,182
Purchase of data
213
213
Training
210
200
______
______
4,923
10,095
=====
=====
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
32  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS ( Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
132
Group and Company
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
e)    Transactions with associate
During the year, transactions with CDSC Ltd were as follows:
Transaction levy on fixed income securities
27,451
-
=====
=====
Net amounts receivable from associate (note 21 (a)) 
7,140
-
=====
=====
Net amounts payable to associate (note 28 (b))
(95)
(100)
=====
=====
f)     Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities
    i)  During the year, transactions with NSE Clear Limited were as follows: 
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Audit and tax fees
836
781
Board allowances
314
400
Income tax
389
241
Derivatives platform
-
921
CMA fees
500
500
Management fees
198
209
Other expenses
121
421
______
______
2,358
3,473
======
======
Amounts due from NSE Clear Limited
9,290
8,506
======
======
ii)   During the year, transactions with NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) were as follows:
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Trustee allowances 
314
400
Audit and tax fees
445
472
Income tax
246
9
Management fees
112
128
CMA fees
500
500
Other expenses
77
129
______
______
1,694
1,638
=====
=====
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
32  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
133
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
32  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
Group and Company
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
f)     Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities (Continued)
 ii)   During the year, transactions with NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) were as follows (Continued) :
IPF contributions received by the company
400
200
=====
=====
 Amounts due to NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
	
-
2
=====
=====
iii)    During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) were as follows:
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Income tax
968
1,814
Trustee allowances
314
400
Audit and tax fees
445
472
CMA fees
500
500
Management fees
1,184
1,471
Other expenses
160
130
_______
_______
3,571
4,787
====
====
 Distribution of surplus to NSE
5,691
7,277
====
====
 Amounts due from the NSE Derivatives SGF
3,623
4,401
====
====
iv)    During the period, transactions with NSE LLP were as follows:
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Income tax
263
1,000
Share of USP fees
2,912
1,113
Audit and tax fees
372
-
 Other expenses
248
313
_______
_______
3,795
2,426
=====
====
 Surplus for the year to the NSE
4,029
3,125
=====
======
 Amounts due (to)/from the NSE LLP
(75)
8
=====
======

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
134
Group and Company
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
g)     Loans and advances to Executive Director
At start of year
3,155
3,659
Advances made in the year
1,509
2,166
Loan made in the year
5,992
2,771
Repayments in the year
(5,703)
(5,441)
_______
_______
At end of year
4,953
3,155
=======
======
Interest income earned on loan
348
295
=======
======
The balances are included in note 21 (a) under Other receivables. The repayment period for the loans and advances are one year and three months respectively. 
Interest on the loans was at 9% p.a (2021 – 10% p.a). All terms are as per company policy.
33  OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY)
The Group and Company as a lessor:
Lease rental income earned during the year was Sh 9 million (2021: Sh 10 million). At the end of the reporting period the Group and Company had existing contracts with tenants for the 
following minimum lease payments:
Group and Company
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
Receivable within 1 year
7,438
9,909
Receivable after 1 year but within 5 years
18,488
25,926
_______
_______
25,926
35,835
======
======
Rental income receivable relates to the lease rent receivable on the leased areas on the investment property.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
32  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
135
34  CAPITAL COMMITMENTS - GROUP AND COMPANY
Commitments at the end of the reporting period for which no provision had been made in these financial statements:
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
Authorised but not yet contracted for
102,240
47,529
======
======
The capital commitments relate mainly to system infrastructure and support.
35  RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The main business risks faced by the Group and the Company in respect of its principal non-derivative financial instruments are market risk including interest rate risk and 
foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The directors review and determine policies for managing these risks.
a)     Market risk
	The Group and the Company maintains a conservative policy regarding currency and interest rate risks and does not engage in speculation in the markets.  In addition, 
the Group and the Company do not speculate or trade in derivative financial instruments.
i)      Interest rate risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company’s investment in interest earning investments are both at amortised cost and fair value through profit or loss. These comprise of treasury bonds 
and bank deposits which are at fixed interest rates hence not exposed to interest rate risk.
The fixed deposits are short-term in nature and the fair value risk is considered minimal. Treasury bonds held at fair value through profit and loss carry a fair value risk 
as these are long term. The Group and Company’s investments are at fixed interest rates and are therefore not exposed to interest rate risk for both 2022 and 2021.
ii)     Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company undertake certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. Exchange rate 
exposures are however minimal as these only relate to income from data and interest income.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
136
At 31 December, the carrying amounts of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities which were all held in US Dollar currency are as follows:
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Assets
Cash and bank balances
1,246
247
Other receivables
2,523
19
Fixed deposit
42,472
13,837
_______
_______
46,241
14,103
Liabilities
Accrued expenses
(6,521)
(3,541)
_______
_______
Net position
39,720
10,562
======
======
At 31 December 2022, if the Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US Dollar with all other variables held constant, the impact on pretax profit 
for the period would have been Sh 3,972,000 (2021: Sh 1,056,000) higher/lower mainly as a result of translation of US dollar denominated balances.
iii)      Price risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company hold investments that would be subject to price risk.
At 31 December, the fair value of the investments that are subject to price risk are as follows:
 
2022
2021
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Quoted equity instrument
106,828
75,333
=====
======
At 31 December 2022, if the price had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the market share price, the impact on other comprehensive income through 
revaluation reserve would have been Sh 10,683,000 (2021 – Sh 7,533,000).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)
a)      Market risk (Continued)
ii)      Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company) (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
137
b)      Credit risk (Group and Company)
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss. Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial 
instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. Credit risk mainly arises from financial assets and is managed on a 
Group-wide basis.
Credit risk on financial assets with banking institutions is managed by dealing with institutions with good credit ratings and placing limits on deposits that can be 
held in one institution. 
Credit risk on trade receivables is managed by ensuring that credit is extended to customers with an established credit history. The credit history is determined by 
taking into account the financial position, past experience and other relevant factors. Credit is managed by setting a credit limit and credit period for each customer. 
The utilization of the credit limits and the credit period is monitored by management on a monthly basis.
In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly, the Group compares the risk of default occurring on the financial asset as at 
the reporting date with the risk of default occurring on that financial asset as at the date of initial recognition. In doing so, the Group considers reasonable and 
supportable information that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition and that is available without undue cost or effort. There is 
a rebuttable assumption that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 
days past due.
For this purpose, default is defined as having occurred if the debtor is in breach of contractual obligations, or if information is available internally or externally that 
suggests that the debtor is unlikely to be able to meet its obligations. However, there is a rebuttable assumption that that default does not occur later than when a 
financial asset is 90 days past due. The Group and Company do not hold collateral or security to mitigate credit risk.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
138
The amount that best represents the Group and Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 2022 and 2021 is made up as follows:
12-month expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected credit losses
       (a)                                   (b)
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2022
Government securities
467,402
-
-
467,402
Long-term restricted investments
145,354
-
-
145,354
Trade receivables
24,772
1,462
-
26,234
Other receivables
37,984
3,947
-
41,931
Short-term restricted cash and investments
296,470
-
-
296,470
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
88,083
-
-
88,083
________
________
________
________
Gross carrying amount
1,060,065
5,409
-
1,065,474
Loss allowance
(9,493)
(5,409)
-
(14,902)
________
________
________
________
Exposure to credit risk
1,050,572
-
-
1,050,572
=======
=======
=======
=======
At 31 December 2021
Government securities
375,627
-
-
375,627
Long-term restricted investments
145,948
-
-
145,948
Trade receivables
40,955
1,273
-
42,228
Other receivables
29,471
1,084
-
30,555
Short-term restricted cash and investments
238,652
-
-
238,652
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
422,180
 -
-
422,180
________
________
________
________
Gross carrying amount
1,252,833
2,357
-
1,255,190
Loss allowance
(12,483)
(2,357)
-
(14,840)
________
________
________
________
Exposure to credit risk
1,240,350
-
-
1,240,350
=======
=======
=======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)
b)      Credit risk (Group and Company) (Continued) 
i)      The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet date was as follows:

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
139
12-month expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected credit losses
       (a)                                   (b)
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Company
At 31 December 2022
Government securities
467,402
-
-
467,402
Trade receivables
24,739
1,462
-
26,201
Other receivables
36,426
3,190
-
39,616
Short-term restricted cash and investments
296,470
-
-
296,470
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
59,393
-
-
59,393
________
________
________
________
Gross carrying amount
884,430
4,652
-
889,082
Loss allowance
(9,433)
(4,652)
-
(14,085)
________
________
________
________
Exposure to credit risk
874,997
-
-
874,997
=======
=======
=======
=======
At 31 December 2021
Government securities
375,627
-
-
375,627
Trade receivables
40,955
1,273
-
42,228
Other receivables
26,487
1,084
-
27,571
Short-term restricted cash and investments
238,652
-
-
238,652
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
394,695
-
-
394,695
________
________
________
________
Gross carrying amount
1,076,416
2,357
-
1,078,773
Loss allowance
(10,799)
(2,357)
-
(13,156)
________
________
________
________
Exposure to credit risk
1,065,617
-
-
1,065,617
=======
=======
=======
=======
Financial assets for which the loss allowance has been measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses have been analysed above based on their credit risk ratings as follows:
·	
financial assets for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but that are not credit impaired
·	
financial assets that are credit impaired at the balance sheet date
The above represents the worst-case scenario of credit exposure for both years.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)
b)      Credit risk (Group and Company) (Continued) 
i)      The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet date was as follows (Continued):

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
140
ii)      The loss allowance at end of each year relates to the following:
12-month expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected credit losses
       (a)                                   (b)
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2022
Government securities (note 19)
6,315
-
-
6,315
Long-term restricted investments (note 18)
40
-
-
40
Trade receivables (note 21 (b))
116
1,462
-
1,578
Other receivables (note 21 (b))
700
3,947
-
4,647
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits (note 22)
2,322
-
-
2,322
________
________
________
________
Total
9,493
5,409
-
14,902
=======
=======
=======
=======
At 31 December 2021
Government securities (note 19)
6,386
-
-
6,386
Long-term restricted investments (note 18)
1,615
-
-
1,615
Trade receivables (note 21 (b))
155
1,273
-
1,428
Other receivables (note 21 (b))
356
1,084
-
1,440
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits (note 22)
3,971
-
-
3,971
________
________
________
________
Total
12,483
2,357
-
14,840
=======
=======
=======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)
b)      Credit risk (Group and Company) (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
141
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)
b)      Credit risk (Group and Company) (Continued)
ii)      The loss allowance at end of each year relates to the following ( Continued)	 	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
12-month expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected credit losses
       (a)                                   (b)
Total
Company      
At 31 December 2022
Government securities (note 19)
6,315
-
-
6,315
Trade receivables (note 21 (b))
116
1,462
-
1,578
Other receivables (note 21(b)))
700
3,190
-
3,890
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits (note 22)
2,302
-
-
2,302
________
________
________
________
Total
9,433
4,652
-
14,085
=======
=======
=======
=======
At 31 December 2021
Government securities (note 19)
6,386
-
-
6,386
Trade receivables (note 21 (b))
155
1,273
-
1,428
Other receivables (note 21(b))
356
1,084
-
1,440
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits (note 22)
3,902
-
-
3,902
________
________
________
________
Total
10,799
2,357
-
13,156
=======
=======
=======
=======

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
142
12-month expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expectedcredit losses
(a)                          (b)
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
Year ended 31 December 2022
At start of year
12,483
2,357
-
14,840
(Reversals)/additions in the year (note 7)
(2,990)
3,052
-
62
________
________
________
________
At end of year
9,493
5,409
-
14,902
=======
=======
=======
=======
Year ended 31 December 2021
At start of year
4,205
9,307
-
13,512
Written off in the year
-
(4,518)
-
(4,518)
Recoveries in the year (note 7)
-
(2,485)
-
(2,485)
Additions in the year (note 7)
8,278
53
-
8,331
________
________
________
________
At end of year
12,483
2,357
-
14,840
=======
=======
=======
=======
Company
Year ended 31 December 2022
At start of year
10,799
2,357
-
13,156
(Reversals)/additions in the year (note 7)
(1,366)
2,295
-
929
________
________
________
________
At end of year
9,433
4,652
-
14,085
=======
=======
=======
=======
Year ended 31 December 2021
At start of year
3,709
9,307
-
13,016
Written off in the year
-
(4,518)
-
(4,518)
Recoveries in the year (note 7)
-
(2,485)
-
(2,485)
Additions in the year (note 7)
7,090
53
-
7,143
________
________
________
________
At end of year
10,799
2,357
-
13,156
=======
=======
=======
=======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued)
b)      Credit risk (Group and Company) (Continued)
iii)     The changes in the loss allowance during the year were as follows: 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
143
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash to meet the Group and Company’s obligations.  The Group and Company manage this risk by 
maintaining adequate cash balances in the bank, banking facilities and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. 
The table below analyses the Group and Company’s financial liabilities that will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity grouping’s based on the remaining period 
at the reporting period to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 
months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Up to 1 year
1 – 5 years
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2022
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,215
2,215
Trade and other payables
63,573
-
63,573
Dividends payable
57,109
-
57,109
Trading members’ contributions
2,000
-
2,000
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
-
11,750
11,750
_______
_______
_______
Total financial liabilities
122,682
13,965
136,647
=======
=======
=======
At 31 December 2021
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,216
2,216
Trade and other payables
44,490
-
44,490
Dividends payable
67,070
-
67,070
Trading members’ contributions
2,400
-
2,400
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
-
11,750
11,750
________
________
_______
Total financial liabilities
113,960
13,966
127,926
=======
=======
======
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) 
c)      Liquidity risk – Group and Company

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
144
Up to 1 year
1 – 5 years
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Company
At 31 December 2022
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,215
2,215
Trade and other payables
55,947
-
55,947
Dividends payable
57,109
-
57,109
Due to NSE LLP
75
-
75
________
________
_______
Total financial liabilities
113,131
2,215
115,346
=======
=======
======
At 31 December 2021
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,216
2,216
Trade and other payables
38,285
-
38,285
Dividends payable
66,444
-
66,444
________
________
_______
Total financial liabilities
104,729
2,216
106,945
=======
=======
======
d)      Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
IFRS 7 specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether inputs used in the valuation techniques of financial instruments are observable or unobservable. 
Financial instruments are grouped into 3 levels based on the degree to which fair value data/input is observable.
i)	
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active trading markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
ii)	 Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as a price) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Input data for this category is sourced mainly from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The external valuation of buildings and 
investment property has been performed using a sales comparison approach.
iii)	 Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35  RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) 
c)      Liquidity risk – Group and Company (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
145
The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are carried at fair value by level of the fair value hierarchy. 
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group and Company
Level 1
Financial assets
Quoted equity instrument
106,829
75,333
=======
=======
Level 2
Financial assets
Government securities
265,375
365,598
=======
=======
There were no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 in the period and for level 3, there was no movement.
Level 1 – We have determined the fair value using quoted prices (unadjusted) from the Dar Es Salaam Stock Exchange
Level 2 – We have determined the fair value using the implied yield curve for the bond published by the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The fair value for the investment 
property is based on a valuation report.
36  CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group and Company manage its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the 
optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
At 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021, the Group and Company did not have any borrowings.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
35  RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) 
d)      Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
146
37  MINIMUM LIQUID NET-WORTH REQUIREMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY)
2022
2021
Sh’000
Sh’000
Estimated twelve months operating costs
592,940
477,304
=======
=======
Required minimum liquid net-worth at one half of estimated operating costs
296,470
238,652
=======
=======
Cash and cash equivalents and fixed deposits
296,470
238,652
=======
=======
Maturing within 3 months
172,877
210,719
Maturing after 3 months
123,593
27,933
________
________
296,470
238,652
=======
=======
To ensure that there is no significant risk that liabilities may not be met as they fall due, the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 requires a futures 
exchange to maintain minimum liquid net-worth requirements equal to one half of the estimated gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve (12) 
month period or such other liquid net-worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. This has been met based on the above.
38  CONTINGENT LIABILITY
	
a)	
This is a suit against the NSE that was filed in July 2021 by 7 of the former employees of the NSE who were declared redundant following the restructuring process. 
The Claimants allege wrongful termination of their employment contracts. The suit is for Sh 40,256,024 plus general damages to be assessed by the Court.  The 
matter is still pending in Court and has not been provided for in these financial statements.
b)	
This is a suit filed in 2010 by Mercy Nyambura Kanyara & Another against Nyaga Stockbrokers (Under Statutory Management), NSE and other Defendants on 
assertions that they were in breach of contractual, fiduciary and statutory duties owed to the Plaintiff. The claim is for Sh 95,199,711 in respect of accrued shares 
and dividends and the costs of the suit. A ruling was delivered on 5th October 2017 striking out the suit and the Plaintiff filed an appeal against the ruling
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
147
NOTICE OF THE 69TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE is hereby given that the 69th Annual General Meeting of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc will 
be held by electronic communication, on Tuesday 30th May 2023 at 11.00 a.m. to transact the following 
business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To read the notice convening the meeting, table the proxies received and conﬁrm the presence of a 
quorum.
2. To receive the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Report.
3. To receive, consider and, if thought ﬁt, adopt the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31st 
December 2022 together with the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
4. To approve a ﬁnal dividend of Kshs. 0.20 per ordinary share, in respect of the Financial Year ended 31st 
December 2022 and to approve the closure of the Register of Members at the close of business on 30th 
May 2023 for one day for the purpose of determining the qualifying members entitled to dividends. 
5. To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board as detailed in the Annual Report for the Financial 
Year ended 31st December 2022 and to authorize the Directors to ﬁx their remuneration. 
6. Election of Directors:
(a) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Michael 
himself for re-election; 
(b) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Ms. Risper Alaro 
- Mukoto (a Non-Executive Director representing Listed Companies) retires by rotation, and, 
(c) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Paul Mwai (a 
Non-Executive Director representing Trading Participants) retires by rotation, and, being eligible, 
7. In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015, the following directors, 
being members of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, be appointed individually to 
continue to serve as members of the said Committee:
(a) Mr. John Niepold;
(b) Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto (subject to re-election);
(c) Ms. Isis Nyong’o Madison; and
(d) Mr. Michael Turner (subject to re-election).
8. To reappoint Messrs Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Auditors of the Company, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 721(4) of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorize the Directors to ﬁx their 
remuneration for the ensuing Financial Year in accordance with the provisions of Section 724 of the 
Companies Act, 2015.
   
ANY OTHER BUSINESS
10. To consider any other business of which due notice has been received.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
KURIA K. WAITHAKA
COMPANY SECRETARY & CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER
DATE: 8th May 2023
Notes:
1. Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc has convened and will conduct a Virtual Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) pursuant to section 283 of the Companies Act and Article 79 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association.
2. The Company, pursuant to Section 283(3) of the Companies Act has made available the following 
documents on the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke for Shareholder access:
(a) A copy of this Notice and the Proxy form;
(b) The Company’s Financial Statements and reports for the year 2021; 
(c) Amended Articles of Association;
(d) Nomination Form; and
(e) Consent Form.
3. Shareholders wishing to participate in the meeting should register for the AGM by dialing *483*560# 
on their mobile telephone and follow the various prompts on the registration process or click on the 
following link https://escrowagm.com/nse/signup.aspx and ﬁlling in the registration form. In order to 
complete the registration process, the shareholder will need to have their ID/Passport Numbers that 
were used to purchase their shares and/or their CDSC Account Number at hand.
4. To complete the registration process, shareholders will need to provide their National ID/Passport 
Numbers which were used to purchase their shares and/or their CDSC Account Number. For assistance, 
shareholders should dial the following helpline number: (+254) 0710888000 from 8.00 a.m. to 5.00 
p.m. (EAT) from Monday to Friday. 
A Shareholder domiciled outside of Kenya can send an email to CDSC Registrars via  eagm@
cdscregistrars.com providing their details i.e. Name, Passport/ID Number, CDS Number and Mobile 
telephone number requesting to be registered. CDSC Registrars shall register the shareholder and 
send them an email notiﬁcation once registered.
5. Registration for the AGM opens on Friday 12th May 2023 at 8.00 a.m. (EAT) and will close on Friday 
26th May 2023 at 5.00 p.m. (EAT). Shareholders will not be able to register after this time.
6. Shareholders wishing to raise any questions or clariﬁcations regarding the AGM may do so by:
(a) Sending their written questions by email to the Company’s email address info@nse.co.ke or CDSC 
Registrars email address eagm@cdscregistrars.com;
(b) To the extent possible, physically delivering the written questions with a return physical address 
th Floor, 55 
Westlands Road, Nairobi or to CDSC Registrars Limited, 1st Floor, Occidental Plaza, Muthithi Road, 
Westlands;  or
(c) Sending their written questions with a return physical address or email address by registered post 
to the Company’s address at P.O. Box 43633 - 00100, Nairobi, or to CDSC Registrars address - P.O. 
Box 6341-00100, Nairobi.
 
Shareholders must provide their full details (full name, ID/Passport Number/CDSC Account Number) 
when submitting their questions and clariﬁcations.
 
All questions and clariﬁcations must reach the Company on or before Monday, 29th May 2023 at 1.00 
p.m (EAT).
 
Following receipt of the questions and clariﬁcations, the Company shall provide written responses to 
the questions received to the return physical address or e-mail address provided by the Shareholder 
before the start of the general meeting. 
7. In accordance with Section 298(1) of the Companies Act, shareholders entitled to attend and vote 
at the AGM are entitled to appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf. A proxy need not be a member 
of the Company but if not the Chairman of the AGM, the appointed proxy will need access to a 
mobile telephone. A Proxy Form is available on the Company’s website via this link: www.nse.co.ke. 
Physical copies of the Proxy Form are also available at the following address: CDSC Registrars, 1st 
Floor, Occidental Plaza, Muthithi Road, Westlands. To be valid, a Proxy Form must be duly completed 
by the member and must be returned to CDSC Registrars on the above address or through their email 
address eagm@cdscregistrars.com so as to arrive not later than forty eight (48) hours before the time 
ﬁxed for the meeting, failing which, it will be invalid. In the case of a corporate body, the Proxy Form 
of such corporation. Any person appointed as a proxy should submit his/her mobile telephone number 
to the Company no later than forty eight (48) hours before the time ﬁxed for the meeting. Any proxy 
registration that is rejected will be communicated to the shareholder concerned no later than twenty 
four (24) hours after receipt to allow time to address any issues.
8. In accordance with the provisions of Article 96 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a person 
seeking election as a Director at the Annual General Meeting should deliver to the Company Secretary, 
through the Company’s physical, postal or email address 
 copy to kwaithaka@nse.
co.ke), by Monday 22nd May 2023 at 1.00 p.m., a notice in writing signed by a Shareholder duly 
qualiﬁed to attend and vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person for election and 
notice in writing signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected as per the 
nomination papers which may be accessed on the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke. The person so 
nominated will be required to send a Consent in the format also available on the Company’s website.
9. The AGM will be streamed live via a link which shall be provided to all shareholders who will have 
registered to participate in the general meeting. Duly registered shareholders and proxies will receive 
a short message service (SMS/USSD) prompt on their registered mobile numbers, twenty four (24) 
hours prior to the AGM acting as a reminder of the AGM. A second SMS/USSD prompt shall be sent 
one hour ahead of the AGM, reminding duly registered shareholders and proxies that the AGM will 
begin in an hours’ time and providing a link to the live stream.
10. Duly registered shareholders and proxies may follow the proceedings of the AGM using the live stream 
platform and may access the agenda. Duly registered shareholders and proxies may vote (when 
prompted by the Chairman) via the USSD prompts.
11. For shareholders residing outside Kenya and wishing to participate in the AGM, the following procedure 
shall apply:
(a) The Shareholder domiciled outside of Kenya will send an e-mail to CDSC Registrars eagm@
cdscregistrars.com providing their details i.e. Name, Passport/ID Number, and Mobile telephone 
number requesting to be registered.
(b) CDSC Registrars shall register the shareholder and send them an email notiﬁcation once registered.
(c) A notiﬁcation (email and SMS) shall be sent to them as well as all shareholders an hour before 
the AGM notifying them about the AGM. This notiﬁcation will also include the link to stream the 
proceedings.
(d) For voting, the shareholder will receive a veriﬁcation Code via the Mobile telephone number 
provided.
(e) The link shared to stream the meeting contains a voting tab. Once the shareholder selects to vote, 
he/she shall key in the code received via SMS and proceed to follow the prompts.
(f) A shareholder may also ask questions via the Questions Tab.
11. Results of the AGM shall be published on the Company’s website within twenty four (24) hours 
following conclusion of the AGM.
In case of any changes to the above, Shareholders will be updated through the registered contact details 
and through the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke. 

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
148
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
145
PROXY FORM
Discover Opportunity
I/We,……….................…......................…….,………. of…
…………………………………….., being a shareholder/shareholders of the above-named Company, hereby 
appoint………………………….……………….., of………………………………., or failing him/her ……………...…….……....……........ of …
…………………..….. as my/our 
proxy to attend and vote for me/us/on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company to be held on 30th May 2023 and at any adjournment thereof.
As witness my/our hand this………… day of …………….………….2023
SIGNED…………………………………………..
SIGNED…………………………………………..
This Form is for purposes of voting for or Against any resolutions here below. Please mark as appropriate. Unless otherwise instructed, the proxy shall vote as he/she thinks fit.
AGENDA ITEM
RESOLUTION
FOR
AGAINST
ORDINARY BUSINESS
4.
To adopt the audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 31st December 2022
5.
To approve a final dividend of Kshs. 0.20 per share and to approve the closure of the Register of Members at the close of 
business on 30th May 2023 for one day for the purpose of determining the qualifying members entitled to dividends.
6.
To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board in respect of the Financial Year ended 31st December 2022 and to 
authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration.
7 (a)
To re-elect Mr. Michael Turner (an Independent Non-Executive Director) in accordance with Articles 94 and 95.
7 (b)
To re-elect Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto (a Non-Executive Director representing Listed Companies) in accordance with Articles 94 and 95.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
149
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
146
AGENDA ITEM
RESOLUTION
  FOR
AGAINST
7 (c)
To re-elect  Mr. Paul Mwai (a Non-Executive Director representing Trading Participants) in accordance with Articles 94 and 
95.
8 (a)
To  appoint Mr. John Niepold to continue serving as a member of  the  Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
8 (b)
To appoint Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto to continue serving as a member of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
8(c)
To appoint Ms. Isis Nyongo - Madison to continue serving as a member of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
8 (d)
To appoint Mr. Michael Turner to continue serving as a member of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
9.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the auditors for the Company for the Financial Year ending 31st December 2023 and 
to authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
150
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
147
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CONSENT FORM
Please complete in BLOCK CAPITALS
Full name of Proxy(ies):_____________________________________________________________________________
    
          ______________________________________________________________________________
             
          ______________________________________________________________________________
Address:    _________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
 
Mobile Number   
  Date: ____________________________________________________
Signature: _________________________________________________
Please tick ONE of the boxes below and return to: CDSC Registrars, 1st Floor, Occidental Plaza, Muthithi Road, Westlands
Approval of Registration
I/We approve to register to participate in the virtual AGM to be held on 30th May 2023.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
151
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
148
Consent for use of the Mobile Number provided
I/We would give my/our consent for the use of the mobile number provided for purposes of voting at the virtual AGM.
Notes:
If a member is unable to attend personally, this Proxy Form should be completed and returned (together with a power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is 
assigned or a notarized certified copy of such power or authority) to CDSC Registrars, 1st Floor, Occidental Plaza, Muthithi Road, Westlands, or through their email address eagm@
cdscregistrars.com, to arrive not later than 11.00 a.m. (EAT) on 28th May 2023 i.e. 48 hours before the meeting or any adjournment thereof. 
In case of a member being a corporate body, the Proxy Form must be signed under the hand of an officer or duly authorized attorney of such corporate body.
As a shareholder you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of your shareholder rights to attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at the meeting. A 
proxy need not to be a shareholder of the Company.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
151
CONSENT FORM FOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
I 
……………………...……………………….....………. 
of 
P.O.Box 
……………………..……………. 
being 
the 
person 
in 
respect 
of 
whom 
………………………………………….…………………. of P.O. Box ……………………………………………… has given notice of intention to propose me  as a candidate to be 
elected as an Independent , Non-Executive Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday 30th May 2023, do hereby notify you 
of my willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this ……… day of………………. 2023.
 
..................................................................
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1.  Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc provides as follows:
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one 
vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to 
be elected.”
2.   To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to  ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. on Monday  22nd  May 2023.
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
CONSENT FORM FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
(REPRESENTING LISTED COMPANIES)
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke
I 
……………………...……………………….....………. 
of 
P.O. 
Box 
……………………..……………. 
being 
the 
person 
in 
respect 
of 
whom 
………………………………………….…………………. of P.O. Box ……………………………………………… has given notice of intention to propose me  as a candidate 
to be elected as a  Non-Executive Director (representing listed companies) of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday 30th 
May 2023, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this ……… day of………………. 2023.
..................................................................
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1) 
Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc provides as follows:
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before 
the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualiﬁed to attend and vote at the meeting for which 
the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
2) 
To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. on Monday,  
 
22nd May 2023.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
154
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
149
NOMINATION FORM FOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR 
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
I/We ……..…………………………………………………of  P.O. Box ………………………………….. being a shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc and duly 
qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday 30th  May 2023, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to propose ………………
……………….…………………….......................................................... of  P.O. Box ……………………………………….. for election as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the 
Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ………….. day of…………………………………2023.
SIGNED BY:
NAME ……………………………………………………………………
SIGNATURE(S)………………………………………………………………
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
155
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
CONSENT FORM FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
(REPRESENTING TRADING PARTICIPANTS)
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke
I ……………………...………………………...................................………. of P.O. Box ………................…..……………. being the person in respect of whom 
………………………………………….…………………. of P.O. Box ……………………………………………… has given notice of intention to propose me  as a candidate 
to be elected as a  Non-Executive Director (representing Trading Participants) of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday 
30th May 2023, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this ……… day of………………. 2023.
....................................................................
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1) 
Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc provides as follows:
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before 
the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualiﬁed to attend and vote at the meeting for which 
the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
2) 
To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. on Monday, 
 
22nd May 2023.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
156
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
NOMINATION FORM FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
(REPRESENTING LISTED COMPANIES)
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
I/We ……..…………………………………………………of  P.O. Box…………………………………… being a shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Plc and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday 30th May 2023, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to 
propose ……………………………….…………………….......................................................... of  P.O. Box...............for election as a Non-Executive Director (representing listed 
companies) of the Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ………….. day of…………………………………2023.
SIGNED BY:
NAME…………………………………………………………………..
SIGNATURE(S) ………………………………………………………
PLEASE NOTE:
1) 
The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc define a “Non-Executive Director” as a  Director who is not an Executive Director;
2) 
To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to  ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. on 
 
Monday, 22nd May 2023.

NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2022
NOMINATION FORM FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
(REPRESENTING TRADING PARTICIPANTS)
Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, KENYA
Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
I/We ……..…………………………………………………of  P.O. Box……….………………………………..being a shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange Plc and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday 30th May 2023, do hereby give notice of my/our intention 
to propose ……………………………….…………………….................................................. of P.O. Box…………………………………………. for election as a Non-Executive 
Director (representing Trading Participants) of the Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ………….. day of…………………………………2023.
SIGNED BY:
NAME ……………………………………………………………………
SIGNATURE(S) ……………………………………………………………
PLEASE NOTE:
1) 
The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc define a “Non-Executive Director” as a  Director who is not an Executive Director;
2) 
To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. on 
 
Monday, 22nd May 2023.

NOTES

NOTES

NOTES

www.nse.co.ke
Trading and investments
Trading Systems and Technology
Corporate Governance
Risk and compliance
ESG
The NSE Offers Premium 
Training & Consulting
Services in:

Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC  
The Exchange, 55 Westlands Road  
P. O. Box 43633 - 00100 Nairobi, Kenya
Tel: +254 20 2831000 
Mobile: +254 724 253783 
  
  
 
 
+254 733 222007 
Email:  info@nse.co.ke  
Website:  www.nse.co.ke

