2023
INTEGRATED REPORT &
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


 
The leading Securities Exchange in East and Central Africa connecting 
capital to opportunities in the region through provision of a world class 
trading facility for local and international issuers and investors.
3
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

TABLE OF
CONTENTS
OUR COMPANY
CORPORATE INFORMATION	
6
ABOUT THIS REPORT	
7
ABOUT NSE	
9
NSE STRUCTURE	
11
NSE HISTORY	
12-13
FIVE YEAR COMPANY PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS	
14
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE	
16-18
CEO’S MESSAGE	
20-22
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT	
24-33
BUSINESS REVIEW
MATERIAL ISSUES	
34-39
DIRECTORS’ REPORT	
38-39
BOARD MEMBERS PROFILES	
40-44
BOARD MEMBERS COMMITTEES MEMBERSHIP	
45-46
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS	
47
NSE 2023 HIGHLIGHTS	
48-51
ENTERPRISE RISK (ERM) FRAME WORK	
53-56
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 	
59-65
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT	
66-69
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY	
70
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT	
71-73
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME	
74-75
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION	
76-77
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION	
78-79
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY	
80
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY	
81
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS	
82
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS	
83-139
NOTICE OF THE 70TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOMINATION AND CONSENT FORMS
4
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

!"#$%&#'()*+$#,#)-'./*0"12)'345'61,)2$",)7'8)9%$,'"17':#1"1*#";'(,",)<)1,-'=>?@
!
!"#$%&#'()*+$#,#)-'./*0"12)'345'61,)2$",)7'8)9%$,'"17':#1"1*#";'(,",)<)1,-'=>?@
!
Creating
Opportunities
in Regional
Economies
We oﬀer investors access to Kenya’s and East Africa’s
economic growth through exposure to leading 
companies across various sectors of the economy.

CORPORATE INFORMATION
DIRECTORS
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS	
Chairman
Mr. Paul Mwai	
Vice Chairman
Mr. John Niepold
Mr. Michael Turner
Mr. Donald Wangunyu 
Mr. Stephen Chege
Ms. Risper Alaro 
Ms. Isis Madison
Ms. Carol Kariuki 
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo	
Chief Executive Officer - Retired on 1st March 2024
Mr. Frank Mwiti	
Chief Executive Officer - Appointed effective 2nd May 2024
SECRETARY
Mr. Kuria Waithaka
P.O. Box 43633 – 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
REGISTERED OFFICE
L.R. No 209/18851
The Exchange, 55 Westlands Road 
P.O. Box 43633 - 00100 
Nairobi, Kenya
AUDITOR
Deloitte & Touche LLP 
Deloitte Place 
Off Waiyaki Way
P.O. Box 40092 - 00100 
Nairobi, Kenya
BANKERS
KCB Bank Limited
Moi Avenue Branch 
P.O. Box 30081 – 00100 
Nairobi, Kenya 
Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited 
Chiromo Branch 
P.O Box 3003 – 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited 
Westlands Branch 
P.O. Box 48231 – 00100
Nairobi, Kenya
LEGAL ADVISERS
Mboya Wangong’u & Waiyaki Advocates
Lex Chambers
Maji Mazuri Road, Lavington
P.O. Box 74041 – 00200
Nairobi, Kenya
Walker Kontos Advocates
Hakika House
Bishops Road
P.O. Box 60680 – 00200
Nairobi, Kenya
Mohammed Muigai LLP 
MM Chambers, 4th Floor, K-Rep Centre
Wood Avenue, Off Lenana Road, Kilimani 
P.O. Box 61323 – 00200
Nairobi, Kenya
KN Law LLP
The Pavilion Westland
Lower Kabete Road
Nairobi, Kenya
6
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

ABOUT THIS REPORT
The Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc is pleased to present its 
integrated report for the period January 1  2023 to December 31 
2023. The report is aimed at providing adequate information to our 
stakeholders, giving a comprehensive overview of how the NSE 
created value to all its stakeholders in the period under review. It 
reports on how the NSE leveraged on its various forms of capitals 
to create and enhance value. The report will offer our stakeholders 
a deeper understanding of our operations, highlighting our 
achievements, opportunities as well as challenges faced during 
the period under review as we seek to become Africa’s leading 
trading and investment platform.
Purpose 
This report is an acknowledgement of the critical importance the Group has placed 
in enhancing its communication with stakeholders through linking financial and non-
financial standards in measuring our performance. This report will therefore provide 
insights into the financial, operational, strategic, social and governance performance 
as well as outcomes and implications to the Group in the year under review. 
Scope of the Report 
The scope of this report relates to the NSE, an investment services company as well 
as material issues arising from its Derivatives Market, its related investments and 
other business lines. Any reference made to the Group will represent the NSE and its 
subsidiaries as well as its associate investments. The report will however capture any 
material issues arising from any related transactions regarding the Group before the 
publication of this report.
Preparations and Presentation 
This integrated report has been prepared in accordance with the International Integrated 
Reporting Framework. The NSE Board of Directors has applied the fundamental 
concepts and principles recommended in the framework in the preparation of this 
report. As a listed company, we have prepared this report in line with the guidelines 
of the Kenya Companies Act 2015 and specifications issued by the Capital Markets 
Authority (CMA). The Group Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 
Assurance The Group’s Financial Statements were audited by Deloitte and Touche LLP 
to enhance their integrity and reliability. 
Frank Mwiti 
Chief Executive Officer
2023
INTEGRATED REPORT &
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NSE Data
Services
Access live or intra-day data on 
Equities,Fixed income and Equity 
Derivatives (single-stock futures (SSFs) and 
Index Futures) markets as well as market 
statistics data generated by the NSE

Mission
Linking capital to 
opportunity to enhance 
stakeholder value.
Who we serve
Investors
We serve a wide 
array of retail 
and Institutional 
investors both local 
and foreign with a 
discretionary mandate 
to invest in frontier 
equities markets and 
Derivatives Products. 
Institutional investors 
make up to 65% 
of our investors.
Issuers
We offer a capital 
raising platform 
for issuers looking 
to raise debt or 
equity capital.
Government
We provide an 
avenue for the 
Government to list 
sovereign paper for 
secondary trading.
Data Clients
The NSE offers data 
products to a wide 
variety of domestic 
and international 
clients including; 
Data Vendors, 
Investment Advisors, 
Fund Managers, 
Trading System 
Developers as Index 
computing companies.
Training Clients
We offer both basic 
and specialized training 
services to a wide variety 
of market players and 
the general public. Our 
training services builds 
the capacity of market 
players in an ever-changing 
environment, ensuring 
their ability to trade with 
even the most complex of 
instruments while keeping 
up with global trends.
Vision
To be the leading 
exchange and the 
investment partner 
of choice through 
providing efficient 
investment and capital 
raising services in 
Africa and globally.
Core Values
	– Integrity 
	– Excellence 
	– Teamwork 
	– Sustainability
	– Accountability
Who we are
The NSE is the leading securities exchange in East and 
Central Africa. We offer a world class trading facility for the 
trading of various equity and debt securities. In addition, 
we also provide a platform for the trading and settlement 
of securities of unquoted companies called the Unquoted 
Securities Platform (USP).
Our Purpose
The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is the principal bourse 
in Kenya, offering an automated platform for the listing and 
trading of multiple securities. NSE has consistently offered 
a well-regulated, robust and world class platform for the 
trading of equities, bonds and derivatives. We offer data and 
analytics solutions to a wide array of investment clients both 
locally and internationally. NSE is the market of choice for 
local and international investors looking to gain exposure to 
the East African economies.
ABOUT NSE
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
9
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Technology and Consulting
Technology and consulting services to build 
capacity in and outside Kenya
•	 Provision of technology solutions to brokers.
•	 Looking to offer technology solutions to other 
players such as Fund Managers, custodians etc.
•	 Consulting and capacity building services in kenya 
and the region.
Data and Information Services
Data Services for Investment  and Research 
Purposes 
•	 Provision of a wide range of data and information 
products for investment purposes.
Capital Formation
Primary Market  
(Capital Raising)
Secondary Market 
(Trading)
•	 Supporting companies 
seeking to raise capital 
through debt or equity.
•	 Supporting efficient 
trading and settlement of 
various securities.
THE NSE’S BUSINESS MODEL 
IN SUMMARY

Central Depository &
Settlement Corporation
Limited (CDSC)
AKS Nominees
Limited
18%
22.5%
94.3%
NSE Investor Protection
Fund (IPF)
NSE Settlement
Guarantee Fund
(SGF)
Shareholders
Nairobi Securities
Exchange PLC
NSE Clear Limited
100%
NSE LLP
100%
NSE STRUCTURE
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
11
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

1920 – 1953
Dealing in shares commenced 
with trading taking place on 
a gentleman’s agreement. 
London Stock Exchange 
(LSE) officials accepted to 
recognize the setting up of 
the Nairobi Stock Exchange 
(NSE) as an overseas stock 
exchange in 1953.
1921 
The NSE was registered as 
a private company limited 
by shares. Share trading 
moved from being conducted 
over a cup of tea (at the 
Exchange Bar at the Stanley 
Hotel), to the floor based 
open outcry system.
2006
The NSE implemented live 
trading on its own Automated 
Trading System (ATS) trading 
equities. The ATS also had 
the capability of trading 
immobilized corporate bonds 
and treasury bonds.
NSE HISTORY
2008 (April)
The NSE launched the NSE 
Investment Challenge to 
promote financial literacy 
and stock market investments 
amongst Kenyan youth.
2009
The NSE marked the first 
day of automated trading 
in government bonds 
through the ATS and 
uploaded all government 
bonds on the System.
2011 (July)
The Nairobi Stock Exchange 
Limited changed its name to 
the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Limited. The change of name 
was a reflection of the 2010 – 
2014 strategic plan of the NSE 
to evolve into a full service 
securities exchange, which 
supports trading, clearing 
and settlement of equities, 
debt, derivatives and other 
associated instruments.
2013 (January)
The Nairobi Stock Exchange 
Limited changed its name to 
the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Limited. The change of name 
was a reflection of the 2010 – 
2014 strategic plan of the NSE 
to evolve into a full service 
securities exchange, which 
supports trading, clearing 
and settlement of equities, 
debt, derivatives and other 
associated instruments.
2019 (February)
The NSE launched revised 
listing rules incorporating 
listing requirements for Green 
Bonds enabling the NSE to 
offer a new asset class to 
issuers and investors.
2019 (May)
The East African Securities 
Exchanges Association (EASEA) 
in partnership with the Rwanda 
Stock Exchange hosted the 
inaugural conference within 
East Africa Capital Markets Day 
in Kigali, Rwanda.
2019 (July)
The NSE launched NEXT 
Derivatives Market, becoming 
the second Exchange in Africa 
to offer Exchange traded 
derivatives. The launch 
enabled the NSE to commence 
the trading of Single Stock 
and Index Futures.
2019 (October)
The NSE launched a new 
trading system provided by 
millennium technologies, who 
are part of the London Stock 
Exchange group.
2020 (June)
Launched a dynamic and 
user-friendly mobile app, to 
enhance investors participation 
in Kenya’s capital market.
2021 (May)
Launched its Unquoted 
Securities Platform (USP)
12
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

2014 (June)
The NSE received formal 
approval from the Capital 
Markets Authority (CMA) to 
operate as a demutualized 
entity. The NSE also received 
formal approval from the CMA 
to offer its shares to the public 
through an Initial Public Offer 
(IPO) and to self-list its shares.
2014 (September)
The NSE listed its 194,625,000 
issued and fully paid up shares 
on the Main Investment Market 
Segment under a new sector 
- Investment Services of the 
Bourse after a successful IPO. 
Following its self-listing, the 
Exchange became the second 
African Exchange after the 
Johannesburg Stock Exchange, 
to be listed, support trading, 
clearing and settlement of 
equities, debt, derivatives and 
other associated instruments.
2015 (October)
The NSE became the fourth 
African Bourse to launch 
the Real Estate Investments 
Trusts (REITs) market and 
consequently listed the first 
REIT, the Stanlib Fahari I-REIT.
2016 (July)
The NSE received formal 
recognition as a Self-
Regulatory Organization 
(SRO) by the Capital Markets 
Authority (CMA).
2017 (June)
The NSE became the first 
Exchange in the East African 
region to introduce Exchange 
Traded Funds (ETFs) and 
subsequently listed the 
Barclays New Gold ETF.
2018 (January)
The NSE became the first 
Exchange in East and Central 
Africa to be admitted as a 
full member of the World 
Federation of Exchanges (WFE).
2018 (December)
The NSE launched its 
incubation and acceleration 
program dubbed Ibuka 
(meaning ‘emerge’ in Swahili) 
to offer companies the 
opportunity to grow their 
businesses and develop 
scalable and impactful 
business models.
2021 (August)
Safaricom and Nairobi 
Securities Exchange announced 
their partnership to enable 
customers invest in stocks by 
redeeming their accrued Bonga 
points. Customers redeem their 
points at a rate of KES 1 for 
every 5 points.
2021 (November)
NSE launched ESG Disclosure 
Guidance Manual.
2021 (December)
NSE launched Day Trading as 
part of its strategy to enhance 
market liquidity.
2022 (May)
The NSE introduced single 
stock futures onto the NSE 
derivatives market. The aim 
was to create a significant 
step in the development of the 
NEXT Derivatives Market and 
the advancement of the Capital 
Markets ecosystem in Kenya.
2022 (September)
NSE PLC and Risk Insights 
announced their partnership. 
The NSE PLC will be using Risk 
Insights’ ESG GPS suite of products 
to access the underlying   ESG 
reports and leverage on ESG 
ratings to support companies on 
their ESG journey to improve their 
ESG transformation strategies, 
disclosure and performances.
NSE admitted Private Wealth 
Capital Limited (PWCL) as an 
Authorized Securities Dealer (ASD) 
for fixed income securities listed 
on the NSE following the firm’s 
approval to operate as an ASD by 
the Capital Markets Authority.
2022 (October)
NSE and the capital markets 
stakeholders welcomed the 
commitment made by His 
Excellency Hon. Dr. William 
Samoei Ruto PhD, C.G.H. 
to revitalize the capital 
markets by embarking on the 
privatization of between five 
to ten State Owned Enterprises 
over the subsequent 12 
months. The commitment 
was made during the Bell 
Ringing Ceremony to mark 
the launch of the enhanced 
NSE Marketplace.
13
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023


Access To
Flexible Quoting
Requirements
The USP will offer issuers a flexible 
quoting and regulatory 
requirements whilst enabling
them to trade their securities.
www.nse.co.ke
Catalyst for growth

Dear Shareholders, 
It gives me great pleasure to present to you the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange Plc (NSE) Annual Integrated Report and Financial 
Statements for the period ending 31st December 2023.
This report highlights our performance against the set strategic 
priorities and our commitment to offer a world class trading 
facility that enables issuers access financing whilst providing 
an avenue for efficient deployment of capital by domestic and 
international investors. 
This report also presents the strategies the Board adopted to 
ensure that the business aligns its priorities with prevailing 
macro-economic development both locally and internationally.
CHAIRMAN’S  
MESSAGE
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
“In the year, we marked a critical 
milestone, admitting Linzi Sukuk, the 
country’s first ever Sukuk Bond. The 
Kshs. 3 billion Sukuk was admitted on 
the Unquoted Securities Platform.”
16
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Chairman’s Message (CONTINUED)
Operating Environment 
During the year under review, the operating environment 
remained significantly challenging both at a domestic 
and international level. At a global level, the tightening 
monetary policy evidenced by increased interest rates 
across major economies, a sharp escalation of inflationary 
pressure and noteworthy adjustments in foreign exchange 
across major markets posed a significant challenge for most 
frontier economies. 
Domestically, the Kenyan economy also experienced 
persistent challenges characterised by rising interest rates, 
elevated inflation and a protracted weakening of the Kenyan 
Shilling against major currencies in the better part of the 
year. The Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) raised the reserve 
rate (CBR) four times in the year to close at 12.5% up from 
8.75% at the beginning of the year. Similarly the Kenyan 
shillings reported a 26% decline against the US Dollar in 
the year under review. 
The challenges were equally compounded by heightened 
fiscal vulnerabilities on account of maturing liabilities in the 
year 2024 specifically Kenya’s June 2024 Eurobond. 
The challenges heightened investor uncertainty and risk 
aversion, dampening investor sentiment and reducing capital 
inflows into frontier markets. They also led to investors 
reallocating capital to developed economies in search of 
higher yields in fixed income and near cash instruments. 
Business and Financial Performance 
Despite the challenging operating environment experienced 
in the year 2023, the Board steered the business during the 
difficult period to post a 34% increase in profit after tax 
from Kshs. 13.7 million in 2022 to Kshs. 18.4 million in 
2023 a testament of the continued resilience the business 
has shown over the last two years.
During the year, the Board adopted a diversified strategy 
aimed at growing revenue from non-trading sources. The 
Board has adopted this strategy to ensure that the business 
remains adequately cushioned from market volatility as 
experienced in the last two financial years
I am pleased to note that the strategy continues to post 
positive results evidenced by the growth of alternative 
revenue streams in the business. Income related to the sale 
of various data products generated by the NSE experienced 
commendable growth, with revenues increasing from 
Kshs. 93.5 million in 2022 to Kshs. 116.6 million in 2023. 
Equally, interest income increased from Kshs. 104.4 million 
in 2022 to Kshs. 120.9 million during the year under review 
a testament that our diversification strategy continues 
to bear fruits. 
During the year, we listed one Real Estate Investment Trust 
(REIT) on the Main Investment Market Segment of the NSE. 
The Laptrust Imara I-REIT is the first REIT issuance by a 
pension firm and marked a decisive point in expanding the 
product to pension funds which could leverage the product 
to unlock liquidity and reduce their exposure to real estate.
In the year, we marked a critical milestone, admitting 
Linzi Sukuk, the country’s first ever Sukuk Bond. The Kshs. 
3 billion Sukuk was admitted on the Unquoted Securities 
Platform. The admission broadens the products offered at 
the NSE and unlocks potential for new REIT issuances as 
well as Islamic products in the country.
The NSE has continued to maintain a strong balance sheet 
with total assets closing the year at Kshs. 2.0 Billion.
Dividends 
The Board of the NSE is keen on distribution of profits to 
shareholders in form of capital. 
Our dividend policy places special focus on growing 
shareholder returns, maintaining strong capital ratios 
whilst supporting the company’s future growth and 
expansion strategies. 
In line with our dividend policy and resilient financial 
performance in the year under review, the Board of 
Directors is pleased to propose an ordinary dividend of 
Kshs. 0.16 per share in relation to the financial year ending 
31st December 2023. 
Growth Outlook 
The Board is optimistic of a positive performance in the 
year 2024 and is keen on deploying various strategies to 
accelerate business recovery and performance in the year. 
The recent, partial advanced settlement of Kenya’s June 
2024 Eurobond in early 2024 sent a positive signal to the 
market. The move significantly buoyed investor sentiments 
and strengthened the Kenya Shilling against major 
currencies, thereby injecting a renewed sense of confidence 
and optimism into the market. 
On the back of this success, the NSE has started to witness 
improved performance in the equity and bond markets. We 
are encouraged and hopeful that this trend will continue 
and that 2024 presents a good opportunity for investors to 
invest in the Kenyan market due to the attractive valuations 
across asset classes at the NSE.
The Board has placed special focus on exploring various 
opportunities for driving growth at an enterprise-wide 
level. Driven by this focus, we have continued to undertake 
various initiatives to stimulate the growth of our market. 
Key is to accelerate the growth of alternative revenue 
sources as we gear performance in our core business. 
Chairman’s Message (CONTINUED)
17
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Chairman’s Message (CONTINUED)
We have continued to maintain productive engagements 
with the National Government in line with  His Excellency 
President William Ruto’s commitment to the growth of 
Kenya’s capital markets. During the year under review, the 
President accented into law the Privatization Act paving way 
for an improved privatization process that will accelerate 
the privatization of state-owned companies. 
The NSE is also engaging various private companies to 
promote listings across various market segments. We are 
envisaging several listings on the MIMS which in effect 
will offer more opportunities to our investors and enhance 
market liquidity.
Appointment of New Chief Executive
I very pleased to inform shareholders that the Board 
appointed Mr. Frank Mwiti as the Chief Executive of the 
NSE. Mr. Mwiti’s appointment follows a comprehensive, 
and rigorous recruitment process. He is a dynamic and 
accomplished business leader with more than two decades 
of diverse and international professional experience 
in strategy, governance, business development, risk 
management, corporate finance, mergers & acquisitions, 
and performance improvement.
The Board is delighted to welcome Mr. Mwiti to the NSE. I 
am extremely confident of Mr. Mwiti’s strategic capabilities 
and exceptional experience and confident he will play a 
critical role in accelerating the next phase of growth of the 
NSE as well as support the Government’s economic growth 
agenda through capital markets. The Board will accord him 
the necessary support to implement strategic initiatives 
that will accelerate the company’s growth and enhance 
Kenya’s appeal to international investments. 
Appreciation 
Our performance and resilience as a business has only been 
possible due to the hard work and commitment of all our 
staff. Their ability and willingness to adapt to the ever-
changing factors affecting our business and continuously 
remaining motivated has been critical in supporting this 
business. I thank the Management team and staff for their 
dedication to the NSE. 
I would like to thank my Board for their guidance and 
perspective in running the business. The Board has been 
critical in challenging and inspiring management to view 
opportunities in entirely new ways and constantly focusing 
the Group to achieve the overall strategy. 
Our shareholders are the cornerstone of our business. I 
take this opportunity to express my gratitude to you for 
entrusting us with your capital. I would like to reassure 
you of our commitment to business growth and delivery of 
enhanced returns to you our shareholder. 
It would be remiss of me not to acknowledge our 
stakeholders in the capital markets industry, including the 
Kenya Association of Stockbrokers and Investment Banks 
and market participants, our listed companies, the Fund 
Managers Association, various professional membership 
bodies, multilateral organizations and other business 
partners in the private and public sectors. 
Finally, I would like to express my gratitude to the 
Government. We have continued to see increased support 
from the Government through His Excellency President 
William Ruto. We have also enjoyed  the support of relevant 
Government Ministries and agencies such as the National 
Treasury, the Capital Markets Authority, the Privatization 
Authority, amongst others. 
We look forward to a better year with improved returns 
and more impact on our economy as we seek to continue 
to connect opportunity to capital through offering best-in-
class investment services to issuers and investors regionally 
and around the world.
Asanteni.
Kiprono Kittony 
Chairman
18
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Growing
the Region’s
Financial
Services Hub
We provide an all-inclusive trading platform 
anchored on best-in-class trading 
technology, wide array of investment
products and data dissemination 
capabilities.
www.nse.co.ke

Dear Shareholders,
It gives me great pleasure and humility to write my statement to 
you as the newly appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange Plc. As I step into this role, I am deeply 
honored to lead a significantly important organization in the 
country’s financial ecosystem and extend my gratitude for the 
trust and confidence bestowed to me to lead the organization in 
its next phase of growth.
I look forward to working closely with all relevant stakeholders 
building on the foundation already established to enhance 
accelerated business growth and development. 
CEO’S 
MESSAGE
Frank Mwiti
“To support topline growth, the 
business will focus on increasing 
core business revenue lines such 
as trading income”
20
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

CEO’s Message (CONTINUED)
Business Performance in the year 2023
As highlighted in the Chairmans statement, our business 
performance in the year 2023 was significantly impacted 
by various macro-economic developments. The rising 
interest rates across various development markets and 
the foreign exchange challenges experienced in the year 
under review negatively weighed on investor sentiments 
causing reduced trading activity and reallocation of capital 
to developed markets.
Despite the challenges, the business remained resilient, a 
testament of the strength  of the business to deliver returns 
to investors. During the year, year-on-year trading volumes 
in the equity market increased by 6.4% to settle at 3.2 
billion shares up from 3 billion shares recorded in 2022. 
However, due to price erosion, the equity market turnover 
recorded a 6.35% decline to close the year at Kshs. 88.2 
billion from Kshs. 94.2 billion posted in 2022. In 2023, the 
bond market turnover similarly declined by 13.20% to 
settle at Kshs. 643 billion, from Kshs. 741 billion in 2022, 
due to reduced valuations on already issued bonds, and 
as investors choose to hold high yielding bonds, issued in 
2023, to maturity. 
The Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) segment was 
active with the LAPTRUST Imara I-REIT coming to the market 
by way of introduction on the main investment market 
segment (MIMS) in March 2023, signalling a resurgence of 
listings at the bourse. The listing represented the first REIT 
issuance by a pension fund in the country. 
The NSE also marked a critical milestone, admitting Linzi 
Sukuk, the country’s first-ever Sukuk Bond. The Kshs. 3 
billion Sukuk was admitted on the Unquoted Securities 
Platform. The admission broadens the products offered at 
the NSE and unlocks potential for new REIT issuances as 
well as Islamic products in the country. 
Near Term Focus Areas as I take Over the 
Leadership of the NSE 
The company is in its final year of the 2020-2024 strategic 
plan. I am happy to report that, we will soon commenced 
the strategy development process for the business. As we 
develop our new strategy, I will focus on various key items 
some of which will be incorporated into our new strategy. 
i. Business Growth and Profitability
As I take over the helm of the organization, I will place 
special focus on steering our company towards a trajectory 
of sustained profitability and robust business growth. 
I will ensure the new strategy highlights opportunities for 
the business to optimize operations, streamline processes, 
and implement a company-wide cost reduction strategy to 
ensure we  maximize our resources and generate healthy 
returns for our shareholders.
To support topline growth, the business will focus on 
increasing core business revenue lines such as trading 
income, listing fees and data income. We will also keenly 
explore and alternative revenue lines to ensure we remain 
cushioned against market cycles and volatility. 
I believe there remains opportunities to increase trading 
activity through enhancing market access to both domestic 
and international investors with renewed commitment to 
accelerating retail investor participation. Equally, pursuing 
new listing opportunities from the private sector and 
through Government privatizations will also enable us to 
drive the core income for the business.
On cost, I am appreciative of the cost position of the 
business. I will have a complete review of key cost items 
and initiate various steps to address the cost position for 
the business.  
ii. Capital Allocation 
I will center my efforts in ensuring that as we strategically 
invest in new opportunities, the business will allocate 
capital effectively to ensure we have enhanced shareholder 
returns and protected capital. Going forward, we will 
carefully asses investment opportunities and prioritize 
those with the highest potential to deliver value and 
generate greater returns whilst ensuring initiatives align 
with our strategic objectives. Equally, we will continuously 
evaluate our capital allocation strategies to ensure they 
are reflective of current market dynamics. We will cause-
correct with urgency  to limit any potential capital erosion 
and value destruction. 
iii. Cross Listings 
Through engagements with various international institutional 
investors, the business was challenged to provide additional 
oportunities through cross listings. As it take over leadership, I 
will focus on enhancing our regional leadership. Over the course 
of the last few years, Kenya has made significant progress in 
enhancing the investment ecosystem.
By leveraging these developments, the NSE can offer 
international investors exposure and a gateway to tap into 
the region’s vibrant economy and burgeoning sectors, such 
as technology, finance, and consumer goods through cross-
listings regional companies on the NSE. Cross-listings will 
provide diversification benefits whilst fostering greater 
liquidity and depth in the market, ultimately enhancing 
NSE’s attractiveness to global investors. As Kenya continues 
to position itself as a regional financial hub, cross-listings on 
the NSE will serve as a testament to its growing significance 
in the global investment landscape. 
21
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

CEO’s Message (CONTINUED)
iv. Human Capital 
Our staff are a critical part of supporting business growth 
and recovery. The growth and development of our staff will 
be very key to me and paramount to our company’s success. 
I am committed to fostering a culture where our employees 
feel empowered, supported, and inspired to reach their full 
potential. By providing avenues for skill enhancement and 
career advancement, we not only nurture individual growth 
but also cultivate a high-performing team capable of driving 
and delivering our strategic priorities.  
Outlook
Our expectation on business performance in the year 
2024 remains positive and the Board is keen on deploying 
a multifaceted strategy that will enhance an accelerated 
recovery of business performance. 
The recent, partial advanced settlement of Kenya’s June 
2024 Eurobond in early 2024 sent a positive signal to the 
market. The move significantly buoyed investor sentiments 
and strengthened the Kenya Shilling against major currencies, 
thereby injecting a renewed sense of confidence and 
optimism into the market.
On the back of this success, the NSE has started to witness 
improved performance in the equity and bond markets. We 
are encouraged and hopeful that this trend will continue 
and that 2024 presents a good opportunity for investors to 
invest in the Kenyan market due to the attractive valuations 
across asset classes at the NSE. Globally, market performance 
prospects are positive as most economists expect interest 
rates to drop or, at a minimum, remain steady as inflation 
improves across many developed economies. 
This is expected to prompt increased flows and activity 
across emerging and frontier market assets including in 
Kenya. This year, we envisage several listings on the MIMS 
which in effect will offer more opportunities to our investors 
and enhance market liquidity. 
Conclusion
As we embark on the journey to transform the NSE, I would 
like to express my gratitude for the warm welcome and 
support that has been extended to me. I equally express my 
appreciation to the Board of the NSE for trusting me with 
this responsibility. 
I look forward to engaging and collaborating with all our 
stakeholders especially our investors as we char the course 
for the next chapter of NSE’s growth and development.  I 
am committed to ensuring the business delivers exceptional 
value to all our stakeholders and drive sustainable business 
growth for our company and  the Kenyan economy. 
Frank Mwiti 
Chief Executive Officer
22
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Growing 
the Region’s 
Financial 
Services Hub
We provide an all-inclusive trading platform anchored on  
best-in-class  trading technology, wide array of investment 
products and data dissemination capabilities.

SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT 

Our Approach to Sustainability 
Since our inception, the NSE has grown to become a critical 
part of Kenya’s growth and economic development story. 
Over the years, we have made significant investments 
aimed at enabling Kenya become the financial services hub 
for East Africa and a gateway to the continent by providing 
investors exposure to the fastest growing economies 
through our trading platform. 
As we focused on establishing a world-class market 
infrastructure, the domestic, regional, and global operating 
environment changed drastically with investor, issuers and 
other key stakeholders placing special focus on sustainable 
business models that are driven by a conscious effort to 
create  positive change within the organizations and the 
environment in which they operate in.
As a business, we strongly believe that sustainability is 
critical to the creation of long-term value for businesses. 
Guided by this, we have placed  critical  focus on ensuring 
that we run our business in an environmentally cautious and 
socially progressive way anchored on strong governance 
structures. Similarly, we have aligned our initiatives to the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
As a frontline regulator of listed companies, we have made 
commitments to support our companies align and report 
on their performance on various aspects of Environment, 
Social and Governance matters. We have advocated for the 
development of reporting structures that enable companies 
report their performance on ESG. 
We believe by enabling Kenyan companies to publicly 
disclose their most significant impacts to the economy, 
environment, and people including on their human 
rights, we will have enabled the country leapfrog on 
sustainability reporting and provided information required 
by various stakeholders. 
This abridged sustainability report aims at highlighting the 
efforts that the NSE has undertaken to embed sustainability 
internally and the initiatives that are key to our sustainability 
agenda. The report also profile our key stakeholders, our 
proposed engagement with the stakeholders and the 
material topics that the NSE will focus on.
We are committed to enhancing our performance against 
key metrics and addressing positive and negative impacts 
of our business. 
Frank Mwiti 
Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Frank Mwiti
Chief Executive Officer
We have made 
commitments to 
support our companies 
align and report on 
their performance 
on various aspects 
of Environment, 
Social and 
Governance matters.
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
25
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Sustainability Report  (CONTINUED)
ESG Governance at the NSE 
Actualising NSE’s ESG Strategy: GOVERNANCE
Group Board
Summary of progress, and 
critical considerations
Remuneration, 
Nominating & Human 
Capital Committee
Finance & Strategy 
Committee
Audit, Risk and 
Compliance Committee
CEO
Board Oversight
Management Oversight 
Chief Legal Officer
Chief Strategy, Risk and 
Compliance Officer 
Leads and oversees the organization’s 
efforts to integrate ESG into its 
business strategy and operations.
Reports to the CEO and Board 
Committees on strategic progress as 
well as risks and brand considerations
Manager, Corporate Affairs 
and Sustainability
26
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Sustainability Report  (CONTINUED)
Board of Directors 
Overall responsibility of providing oversight on the implementation of the sustainability 
strategy
Remuneration, Nominating and 
Human Capital Committee 
Committee in charge of sustainability on the NSE. Oversees progress against various 
performance indicators on various aspects on inclusion and diversity. 
Finance and Strategy Committee  
Oversees progress against performance on ESG and sustainable finance products 
NSE Sustainability Strategy Steering 
Committee (Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Legal Officer, Chief Strategy, 
Risk and Compliance Officer) 
Working at corporate level to ensure sustainability is upheld by the organization.
Leads and oversees the organization’s efforts to integrate ESG into its business strategy and 
operations.
Reports to the CEO and Board Committees on strategic progress as well as risks and brand 
considerations
NSE Sustainability Champions 
Supporting implementation of sustainability at Divisional level in the organization. 
Stakeholder Engagement 
a)	 Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders 
As part of our focus on ensuring our sustainability report 
reflects our impacts on the economy, environment and 
people including on their human rights, we engaged 
various stakeholders over the course of the year and the 
development of the process. 
Stakeholder engagement plays a significant role in ensuring 
we maintain strong relationships with our stakeholders to 
adequately and effectively identify material topics for the 
NSE. Equally, engaging our stakeholders plays a pivotal 
role in enabling us foster transparency, accountability, and 
credibility, in our sustainability reporting. 
In an era where environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
factors are increasingly shaping our business practices and 
investor decisions, engaging with stakeholders ensures our 
reporting reflects a comprehensive view of an organization’s 
impacts and performance. 
We have developed a stakeholder engagement framework 
that supports our engagement with various stakeholders on 
a regular basis to understand their needs and our  impacts. 
Stakeholders engaged include;
1)	 Investors (Domestic and international retail and 
institutional investors);
2)	 Issuers (Current and  prospective equity, debt and 
other potential issuers);
3)	 Employees;
4)	 Regulators;
5)	 Trading participants; and  
6)	 State agencies. 
b)	 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement
1)	 Being receptive to stakeholders concerns;
2)	 Sharing proposed material topics with stakeholders 
for alignment; 
3)	 Receiving feedback and incorporating it in our 
strategic initiatives; and
4)	 Leveraging on various stakeholder engagement 
platforms and channels to engage various companies.
27
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Sustainability Report  (CONTINUED)
c)	 Our Stakeholder Map
Our high priority stakeholders include Investors, Government and State Agencies, Issues and Regulators.
Investors
Government
Regulators
Issues
Media
Community
Suppliers
Employees
Market 
Intermediaries/
Participants
Strategic Business Partners
Power of Stakeholders
Interest of Stakeholders
List of Stakeholders and Our Engagement Practices 
Stakeholder 
Reasoning 
How we Engage 
Shareholders and other 
Investors 
Investors are increasingly interested in 
sustainable investing.  Demand for companies’ 
performance on ESG has significantly grown 
over the last few years. 
•	
Annual General Meetings of shareholders 
•	
Investor briefings
•	
Half-Year and Full Year Financial Reports 
•	
Company website
•	
Domestic and international 
investor roadshows
•	
Response to information requests
•	
Semi-annual investor calls 
•	
Direct investor communications 
•	
External disclosures 
•	
Conferences and non-deal roadshows 
Issuers 
These are the entities whose securities ( equity 
or debt)  are traded on the Exchange. They 
are directly affected by any sustainability 
requirements or reporting standards imposed 
by the Exchange.
•	
One on engagements with listed companies
•	
Chief Executive Officer Forums 
•	
Chief Financial Officer Forums
•	
Press Releases and other market notifications 
•	
Surveys
•	
Direct meetings
28
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Sustainability Report  (CONTINUED)
Trading Participants 
This includes brokers, nominated advisors, 
investment banks  and other market 
participants who facilitate the trading of 
securities on the NSE.  Their perspectives on 
sustainability initiatives and their impact on 
market dynamics are valuable.
•	
One on engagements with various 
trading participants 
•	
Capital markets stakeholders forums
•	
Workshops
•	
Surveys
Employees
Employees of the NSE  are an important 
stakeholder. Engaging them in the development 
and implementation of the sustainability 
initiatives is key in promoting success. 
•	
Employee engagement surveys 
•	
Quarterly performance dialogues
•	
CEO townhalls
•	
Staff meetings 
•	
Annual staff retreats 
•	
Training 
•	
Intranet
•	
Senior Leadership meetings 
Regulators  and State Agencies 
Regulatory bodies oversee the operations 
of the NSE and may mandate certain 
sustainability reporting standards or guidelines. 
Collaborating with regulators is essential to 
ensure compliance and alignment with broader 
sustainability goals.
•	
One on one meetings 
•	
Regulators Forums
•	
Participation across various working groups 
•	
Regulatory working groups 
Media 
The media plays a significant role in shaping 
public opinion and perception. Nagging 
with the media is key in enabling the NSE to 
communicate sustainability initiatives to a 
broader audience, increasing transparency and 
accountability. Additionally, media coverage 
can influence investor sentiment and market 
dynamics making them a key stakeholder of 
the NSE. 
•	
Media briefings 
•	
Press releases
•	
Social media handles
•	
Media interviews
Strategic Business Partners
Partner organizations  play a key  role 
in shaping sustainability standards and 
practices. Collaborating with them can help 
ensure that the NSE sustainability strategy is 
comprehensive and aligned with industry best 
practices.
•	
Partnership initiatives 
•	
Working groups 
Suppliers
Suppliers provide various goods and services 
that are essential for the operations of the 
NSE. Engaging with suppliers on sustainability 
issues can help ensure that the Exchange’s 
supply chain is environmentally and socially 
responsible. This may include promoting 
sustainable sourcing practices, reducing carbon 
footprint, and fostering fair labor practices 
among suppliers.
•	
Contracts 
•	
Performance evaluations 
29
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Sustainability Report  (CONTINUED)
Material Topics 
Our material topics represent those that have the most significant impacts on the economy, the environment and people 
including on their human rights. In 2022, we conducted a materiality assessment process that which included a thorough 
desktop review. Our research illuminated a total of 17 impact topics that we selected for examination and prioritisation with 
the entire organisation through a quantitative survey.  Our material topics  include the below; 
•	
Advocacy
•	
Community Engagement
•	
Environmental 
Management 
& GHG Emissions 
•	
Corporate Governance 
•	
Financial Results 
•	
Business Ethics & Integrity 
•	
Information Security & Data Privacy 
•	
Risk Management 
•	
Diversity & Inclusion
•	
Client Relationship Management 
•	
Employee Wellbeing
•	
ESG & Sustainable Finance Products
•	
Transparency &Reporting
•	
Training & Education 
•	
Human Rights
•	
Innovation & Technology 
•	
Climate Risk Management 
Importance for Stakeholders
Impact on the Business
Performance Against  United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
The NSE is a believer that global challenges require global collaboration and working together to accelerate the attainment 
of core development goals. In line with this, we have committed to supporting various initiatives that contribute directly or 
indirectly in the achievement of various sustainable development goals. 
The NSE identified key areas of need in which the Group held expertise and had the opportunity to create a greater 
impact. These areas which included Gender Equality and women empowerment, Financial Inclusion, Financial Education, 
Conservation and Community Engagement were then embraced as we seek to promote the attainment of the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals.
To enhance implementation, we joined like-minded institutions and together, we leveraged on synergies to enhance our 
impact among communities. This included joining the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary initiative that seeks to 
implement universal sustainability principles and to take steps to support the UN Global Goals.  Equally, in March 2016, we 
signed the Women Empowerment Principles (WEPS) committing to a set of ideologies offering guidance on how to empower 
women in the workplace, marketplace and community.
30
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Sustainability Report  (CONTINUED)
Financial Education 
Goal: Ensure inclusive, equitable and quality education and promote lifelong learning 
opportunities for all.
NSE’s Commitment: Promote financial literacy for economic empowerment  amongst 
Kenyans from all walks of life for 
As a leading Securities Exchange, we have taken a conscious effort to enhance financial literacy for economic growth and 
development. Core to this endeavour is a commitment to nurture the next generation of NSE Investors. 
Financial Literacy has the potential to increase demand for formal financial services in developing economies. We are 
confident that our interventions to promote Financial Literacy have the capacity to enhance Kenyans’ ability to access 
formal financial services thus ultimately boosting savings and investments in the country. 
We have been at the forefront of educating the youth on investments through the annual stock challenge. The flagship 
program is an online simulation of trading of various securities listed on the NSE. Through the competition, the youth get a 
practical investing experience in the stock market using virtual capital and real time stock information provided by the NSE 
through the Automated Trading System. 
The NSE also trains young people on investment opportunities through schools exposure visits.   Young people across various 
secondary schools, universities and colleges get an opportunity to interact with NSE staff and representatives through 
sensitization visits to the NSE. The training sessions on the stock market provide the NSE with an opportunity to mould our 
next generation of Investors. The NSE also promotes expert training aimed at enhancing the skills, expertise and proficiency 
among players in the market.
Students attending a training session at the NSE
31
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Sustainability Report  (CONTINUED)
Climate Action 
Goal: Urgent action to combat climate change and minimize its disruptions.
NSE’s Commitment: Create and Promote investment products that promote awareness or 
mobilize capital earmarked to support projects with benefits to the environment.
Climate change continues to pose a threat to economic 
growth and development. As a country, a majority of our 
value chain and GDP is directly or indirectly affected by 
climatic conditions. 
Climate change has evolved to become a credit problem to 
countries prone to extreme weather patterns and natural 
disasters propelled by global warming as leading credit 
rating agencies weigh on climate change risks in evaluating 
credit worthiness. As a market, we have committed to 
creating a platform to facilitate public and private sector 
investments in sustainable environment. We are aligning our 
market with sustainable development through the provision 
of asset classes that provide investors an opportunity to 
balance financial returns with environmental benefits. 
Additionally, these new instruments will offer investors a 
unique ability to hedge against climate policy risk.
We are in the process of the development of a carbon 
exchange that will facilitate the trading of carbon 
credits in Kenya. 
The NSE has continued to pursue a leadership role in 
spearheading gender equality among listed companies. 
Inspired by the promise of sustainable development Goal 
5, we are at the forefront in ensuring both women and men 
in the Kenyan capital markets enjoy the same opportunities 
and are accorded equal rights and obligations. 
We have also placed special focus on enhancing women’s 
access to both leadership and management positions in 
Kenya’s largest enterprises listed on the NSE.  This has been 
achieved through highlighting financial, risk management 
and profitability benefits that companies stand to benefit 
by leveraging on women’s unique abilities to enhance 
business growth. 
In 2023, the NSE joined other Exchanges globally to Ring the 
Bell for Gender Equality in commemoration of  International 
Women’s Day.  The event is aimed at raising awareness on 
the importance of Gender Equality to both business and 
sustainable development. 
Gender Equality 
Target: Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership 
at all levels of decision making in political, economic and public life. Ensure accessibility of 
capital markets services to female entrepreneurs and investors. 
NSE’s Commitment: Promote Gender Equality in the country  and among listed companies. 
32
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Sustainability Report  (CONTINUED)
As a group, we are cognizant of the fundamental role our 
employees play in supporting the Group to achieve its 
strategic priorities. Skilled, valued and engaged workers are 
the key to exponential growth in our market. 
In 2023,  we continued to enable  our employees succeed 
both in their personal lives and professional lives. We 
provided training and capacity building opportunities for 
various staff members during the year.
Employee Development 
SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive 
employment and decent work for all 
Target: Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, 
including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment. 
Substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training 
NSE’s Commitment: Promote a progressive, inclusive and respectful working environment for 
all whilst offering the youth employment opportunities.
33
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

MATERIAL ISSUES

OPERATIONS DIVISION REPORT
The 
Operations 
and 
Information 
Technology 
department is tasked with 
ensuring 
that 
the 
NSE 
continues to fulfill its primary 
mandate 
of 
facilitating 
trading in listed securities 
and providing accurate and 
reliable data to the public. 
To achieve this goal, the 
department 
operates 
by 
delivering top-tier trading and 
broker back-office systems, 
alongside preparing market data for consumption by 
various stakeholders, both locally and globally, to enable 
informed investment decisions.
The financial year 2023 presented numerous opportunities 
for the growth of the market. Notably, the department 
amended its Equity Trading Rules to permit block trading 
through a Block Board. This move is aimed at providing a 
mechanism where large investors can have flexibility in 
price range as the block providess for a 30% price band 
as opposed to the 10% limit. This move resulted in a block 
transaction of Ksh. 22.7 billion. Moreover, the department 
continued to maintain a world-class equities infrastructure 
provided by Millennium IT, a subsidiary of the London 
Stock Exchange Group, ensuring exceptional resilience and 
system availability throughout the year. 
In the Fixed Income Market segment, in collaboration with 
the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), the department witnessed 
the launch of the Dhow CSD system that facilitates 
seamless investing in government fixed-income securities. 
The department successfully integrated with the Dhow CSD 
system to facilitate the secondary trading of bonds. This 
initiative has positioned the NSE to support a transparent 
secondary market for all listed fixed-income securities. 
Furthermore, the department focused on promoting the 
dissemination of reliable and credible market data held by 
the NSE, resulting in a 24% growth in data revenue from 
Ksh. 93 million to Ksh. 116 million. The increased demand 
for market data underscores its importance in facilitating 
investment decisions, with distribution channels including 
licensed data vendors, and the NSE website.
In conclusion, building upon the foundation laid in 2023, 
the department is optimistic of an improved performance 
in 2024, particularly as the economy rebounds from 
external shocks experienced during the year under review. 
The department has embarked on a journey to upgrade 
its Equity Automated Trading System and its bonds and 
derivatives infrastructure to further facilitate robust trading 
in the securities market. 
24%
growth in data revenue
30%
price band
David Wainaina
Chief Operating Officer
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
35
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

CASH AND DERIVATIVES 
MARKET REPORT 
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT IN 2023
The capital markets has 
continued to benefit from the 
Government’s goodwill, with 
H.E. Dr. William Samoei Ruto 
CGH visiting the Exchange 
on two occasions where he 
presided over the bell ringing 
ceremony of the LAPTRUST 
Imara I-REIT listing and the 
2023 African Securities 
Exchanges 
Association 
(ASEA) Conference.
The LAPTRUST Imara I-REIT listed by introduction on the Main 
Investment Market Segment (MIMS) in March 2023, ending 
the dearth of listings at the bourse. The listing represented the 
first REIT issuance by a pension fund in the country. This could 
spur similar issuances by pension schemes who are heavily 
invested in physical assets, in a bid to unlock liquidity via the 
capital markets. To further support REITs, NSE in collaboration 
with the REITs Association of Kenya (RAK) launched the REITs 
toolkit and incubator program. The program is aimed at 
providing requisite tools and access to industry professionals 
to accelerate the listing journey of upcoming REITs.
The division also continued to focus on enhancing SME 
capital raising via the capital markets and officially launched 
the NSE Connect Platform. NSE Connect is a digital diagnostic 
screening tool designed to bridge the gap between companies 
seeking capital with potential investors providing debt and 
equity capital to the enterprises, via prequalified transaction 
advisors. Management curated and continuously engaged 
with the NSE Connect ecosystem to onboard the numerous 
opportunities within the SME sector on to the platform.
Main Board Listings
Management continued to engage both the private and 
public sector in an effort to seek new quality listings. 
We continued to promote listings by introduction as a 
market entry strategy owing to the prevailing low price to 
earning ratios observed. Private sector pipeline for listing 
presents a promising outlook for 2024 based on ongoing 
engagements with multiple corporates and MSME’s. 
In addition, Management through continuous engagements 
with the National Treasury and County governments sought 
to support the government’s privatization agenda through 
the capital markets.
Corporate Bond Market
In the financial year, the Capital Markets Authority and 
Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc granted approval for the 
issuance of the country’s first-ever Sukuk Bond, named Linzi 
Sukuk. Proceeds of the Sukuk will be used for the financing, 
design, construction, and commissioning of 3,069 residential 
accommodations for the Kenya Defense Forces. The KShs 3 
billion Sukuk has received approval from the NSE for quoting 
on the unquoted securities platform (USP) which is NSE’s 
automated over the counter (OTC) platform for private issuers 
and existing share registars. 
Management also engaged various County governments 
over the year on potential green bond issuances to support 
suitable infrastructure developments. 
The Ibuka Program Strategy
The NSE launched the NSE Connect platform which is a digital 
diagnostic screening tool designed to bridge the gap between 
companies seeking capital, transaction advisors and potential 
investors providing debt and equity capital to the enterprises. 
Management engaged with and signed collaboration 
agreements with leading industry associations including the 
Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), Kenya Association of 
Manufacturers (KAM), Retail Traders Association of Kenya 
(RETRAK), and Kenya Investment Authority (KenInvest) to 
build a pipeline of quality SME issuances. The NSE invited 
enterprises from these associations to participate in the 
NSE Ibuka Capital Raising Program and received more than 
forty applications. The program was delivered by the NSE 
and market intermediaries with a view to provide a dual 
understanding of the capital market fund raising journey as 
well as to appreciate the actual process from professional 
advisors who have facilitated these transactions in the capital 
markets. Twenty-seven SMEs graduated from the program 
and expressed a funding need in excess of Kshs. 4 billion via 
the NSE Connect platform.
Mbithe Muema
Chief Business Officer
36
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)
Real 
Estate 
Investment 
Trusts 
(REITs) 
experienced 
momentum in the year under review. Kenya’s oldest pension 
scheme, LAPTRUST listed the first I-REIT by a pension fund 
– LAPTRUST Imara I-REIT - in March 2023. There remain 
further opportunities for similar pension schemes that are 
heavily invested in physical assets to unlock liquidity via the 
capital markets for the benefit of their pensioners. 
Fahari I-REIT undertook a conversion process from an 
unrestricted to a restricted REIT and subsequently received 
approval to be quoted on the USP. 
NSE in collaboration with the REITs Association of Kenya 
launched the REITs toolkit and incubator, to guide upcoming 
REITs through the listing process. 
Derivatives
The market turnover stood at Kshs. 64 million with a total of 
2,941 contracts traded compared to Kshs. 125 million and 
4,101 contracts traded the previous year. This performance 
was closely correlated with the turnover of the underlying 
equities market that also saw a decline in trading. 
The Exchange received regulatory approval for an NSE 
10 index futures contract that would allow investors to 
hedge against the market volatility. The NSE 10 index was 
structured to better represent the equities portfolios of 
investors in the market. 
Outlook for the year 2024
There remain significant opportunities for a rebound 
of frontier markets’ listed equities, owing to expected 
favorable macroeconomic conditions particularly on 
inflation, interest rates, and currency stability.   
Management will continue engagements with the 
Government of Kenya to accelerate the privatization of 
State-owned Enterprises. 
Management is also keen on increasing the number of 
companies raising equity and debt via the capital markets.
Management notes the increasing demand of listed 
alternative investment opportunities including REITs, ETFs, 
derivatives, green and social finance products, and will 
continue to facilitate their listings.
CASH AND DERIVATIVES MARKET REPORT (CONTINUED)
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
37
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors present their annual report together with the audited financial statements of Nairobi 
Securities Exchange PLC (NSE/the “Company”/the “Exchange”) and its subsidiaries and structured 
entities (together, the “Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2023, which show the state of affairs 
of the Company and the Group.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is the sole securities exchange licensed by 
the Capital Markets Authority to promote, develop, support 
and carry on the business of a securities exchange and to 
discharge all the functions of a securities exchange in Kenya.
NSE Clear Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
NSE. The principal objectives of NSE Clear Limited are to 
carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to 
provide clearing and settlement services for transactions 
in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a 
securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in 
derivative securities transactions and to carry out all 
activities that pertain to a clearing house. 
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and 
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) are trusts 
whose main purpose is to strengthen the financial integrity 
of the derivatives market, ensure settlement of transactions 
in derivatives securities in case of default by a clearing 
member and satisfy specified claims by the investing public 
arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to them 
by trading members or losses incurred by reason of the 
default of the trading members. The Board of Directors of 
the NSE Clear Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and IPF 
who manage and administer these funds. 
The Company’s holding in AKS Nominees Ltd (AKS) is 94% 
(2022: 89%). AKS holds an 18% shareholding in the ordinary 
shares of the Central Depository & Settlement Corporation 
(CDSC) (2022: 18%). The principal activity of the subsidiary 
is holding equity shares in CDSC in trust for its members who 
are authorised to operate as stockbrokers and investment 
banks in the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE).
The NSE Limited Liability Partnership (NSE LLP) was set up 
to run the Unquoted Securities Platform. The Partners of 
the NSE LLP are the NSE PLC, the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Chief Operating Officer of the NSE PLC. The LLP 
has a Management Committee that oversees the day to day 
activities of the LLP. As per the Partnership Deed, NSE PLC 
shall contribute 100% of the capital of the NSE LLP and is 
allocated all the profits and losses of NSE LLP.
BUSINESS REVIEW
The year-on-year trading volumes in the equity market 
increased by 6.4% during the year under review to settle at 
3.2 billion shares up from 3 billion shares recorded in 2022. 
However, due to price erosion, the equity market turnover 
recorded a 6.35% decline to close the year at Sh 88.2 
billion from Sh 94.2 billion posted in 2022. In 2023, bond 
market turnover similarly declined by 13.20% to settle at 
Sh 643 billion, from Sh 741 billion in 2022, due to reduced 
valuations on already issued bonds, and as investors choose 
to hold high yielding bonds, issued in 2023, to maturity.  
The Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) segment experienced 
activity with the LAPTRUST Imara I-REIT coming to the market 
by way of introduction on the main investment market 
segment (MIMS) in March 2023, signalling a resurgence 
of listings at the bourse. The NSE also marked a critical 
milestone, admitting the country’s first-ever Sukuk Bond, 
named Linzi Sukuk. The Sh 3 billion Sukuk was admitted on 
the Unquoted Securities Platform. The admission broadens 
the products offered at the NSE and unlocks potential for new 
REIT issuances as well as Islamic products in the country. 
The Group reported an increase in profit after tax by 34% 
from Sh 13.7 million in 2022 to Sh 18.4 million in 2023. 
This growth is attributed to the non-trading income growth 
strategy adopted by the Board during the year under 
review. Data income experienced commendable growth, 
with revenues increasing from Sh 93.5 million in 2022 to 
Sh 116.6 million in 2023. Equally, interest income was a 
growth line, increasing from Sh 104.4 million in 2022 to 
Sh 121.0 million during the year under review. 
Equity transaction levy reduced from Sh 225.8 million in 
2022 to Sh 211.1 million in 2023 as a result of the decrease 
in equity turnover in the year under review. Bond levy also 
decreased by 19% from Sh 79.4 million in 2022 to Sh 64.4 
million in 2023.
Total expenses increased by 8% from Sh 551 million in 
2022 to Sh 596 million in 2023. This was mainly driven 
by inflationary pressures as well as the impact on the 
weakening of the Kenya shilling against major currencies.
Share of loss of associate (CDSC) improved from a loss of Sh 
46.5 million in 2022 to a loss of Sh 19.4 million in 2023 on 
the associate’s improved performance in 2023.
38
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
Other comprehensive income in 2023 includes mainly 
a fair value gain of Sh 26.3 million on the share price 
appreciation in our equity investment in the Dar-es-salaam 
Stock Exchange.
Total assets decreased marginally from Sh 2.034 billion in 
2022 to Sh 2.028 billion in 2023.
Cash flow from investing activities increased on reduced net 
investment on Government securities in 2023 as compared to 
2022. Cash and cash equivalents increased by Sh 64 million. 
Total investable assets stood at Sh 850.4 million inclusive of 
the regulatory restricted funds amounting to Sh 317.2 million.
DIVIDEND
The Group profit for the year of Sh 18,404,000 (2022: Sh 
13,724,000) has been added to retained earnings. The 
Directors recommend the approval of final dividend of Sh 
0.16 per share amounting to Sh 42 million (2022: Sh 0.20 
per share amounting to Sh 52 million).
DIRECTORS
Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo retired as a Director of the 
Company upon the expiry of his contract as Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company, on 1st March 2024.  Mr. Frank Mwiti 
was appointed as Chief Executive Officer to take up the role 
on 2nd May 2024 and became a Director of the Company 
from that day. 
In the interim period, the Chief Operating Officer, Mr. David 
Wainaina, was appointed as the Acting Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company with effect from 2nd March 2024 up 
to 1st May 2024.
The current members of the Board of Directors are as 
shown on page 6.
DISCLOSURES TO AUDITOR 
The directors confirm that with respect to each director at 
the time of approval of this report:  
(a)	 there is, as far as each director is aware, no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditor 
is unaware; and
(b)	 each director has taken all steps that ought to have 
been taken as a director so as to be aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT OF 
AUDITORS
Deloitte & Touche LLP, having expressed their willingness, 
continue in office in accordance with the provisions of 
section 719 (2) of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and 
independence of the auditor. This responsibility includes 
the approval of the audit engagement contract and the 
associated fees on behalf of the shareholders.
By order of the Board
Mr. Kuria Waithaka 
Company Secretary
28th March 2024
BUSINESS REVIEW (CONTINUED)
39
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

BOARD MEMBERS 
PROFILES

Board Members Profiles (CONTINUED)
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Chairman
Nationality Kenyan
Background Law, Commerce 
Appointment May 30, 2018
Mr. Kittony holds both a Bachelor of Commerce 
(BCom) degree and a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B) 
degree from the University of Nairobi and a 
Global Executive MBA from the United States 
International University (USIU).
Mr. Kittony was appointed Chairman of the NSE 
Board on July 13, 2020 and as a Board Director 
of the NSE on May 30, 2018. He is the immediate 
former National Chairman of the Kenya 
National Chamber of Commerce & Industry 
(KNCCI), the premier business membership 
organization in Kenya.
He is an established entrepreneur and business 
leader having served in several capacities 
including being the immediate past Chairman 
of the Media Owners Association and AAR 
Insurance Limited. During his seven-year tenure 
at the KNCCI, he was widely credited with 
revitalizing the organization through a series 
of transformative initiatives that placed the 
Chamber at the forefront in terms of shaping 
national trade and general economic policy.
He serves as the chair of the CreditInfo CRB 
Kenya Limited, Mtech Limited and Radio Africa 
Group (which he co-founded in 2000). He sits 
on the advisory council of the International 
Fund for Health in Africa (IFHA), an Amsterdam 
based private equity fund and is one of two 
representatives from Africa in the Global Council 
of the World Chambers Federation.
Mr. Paul Mwai
Vice-Chairman
Nationality Kenyan
Background Investment Banking
Appointment May 30, 2018
Mr. Mwai possesses an MBA from Strathmore 
University and a Bachelor of Business from the 
University of Southern Queensland. Additionally, 
he holds an Investment Management 
Certificate from the UK Society for Investment 
Professionals and is an Associate Member of the 
Chartered Institute of Bankers. He is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Investment and 
Financial Analysts (ICIFA) and is an authorized 
Representative for the Growth Enterprise Market 
Segment (GEMS) of the NSE.
Appointed as a Board Director of the NSE on May 
30, 2018, Mr. Mwai currently holds the position 
of Chief Executive Officer at AIB-AXYS Africa 
Ltd. He is also the Immediate Past Chairman 
of the Kenya Association of Stockbrokers and 
Investment Banks (KASIB). With an extensive 
career spanning over thirty years in the financial 
services industry, his expertise encompasses 
fund management and investment banking.
Mr. Mwai’s professional journey includes various 
roles within the Barclays Group, including 
Barclays Merchant Finance Ltd (BMFL) and 
Barclays Dealing Centre. He later transitioned 
to the Barclaytrust Investment Services Group 
in 1998, assuming the role of Fund Manager. 
Following the acquisition of Barclaytrust by Old 
Mutual in October 2002, he served as a Senior 
Portfolio Manager at Old Mutual Asset Managers 
and as an Asset Allocation Strategist. Mr. Mwai 
joined AIB-AXYS Africa Ltd in February 2012 
after his tenure as Chief Executive Officer at 
African Alliance Investment Bank.
Geoffrey Odundo
Nationality Kenyan 
Background Economics and Investment 
Banking 
Appointment CEO since March 3, 2015 to 
March 1, 2024 
Mr. Odundo served as the Chief Executive 
Officer of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc 
(NSE), a position he held for the past nine (9) 
years. He is an accomplished Investment Banker 
and has been in the financial services sector 
for the last 31 years holding senior roles in 
the asset management, corporate finance and 
securities trading. 
Prior to this, he was the Managing Director of 
Kingdom Securities Limited and Chief Manager, 
Merchant and Investment Banking at the Co-
operative Bank of Kenya Group.  
Mr. Odundo served as a Director of the Central 
Depository and Settlement Corporation Limited; 
NSE Clear Limited and Trustee of the NSE Fidelity 
Funds.  He is the Vice Chairman of the REITs 
Association of Kenya (RAK) and a past Director 
of the Association of Stock Exchanges of Africa 
(ASEA) as well as an Executive Committee 
member of EASEA.
Mr. Odundo is a Council Member of the Africa 
Financial Industry Summit (AFIS), a Council 
Member of the Institute of Certified Financial 
Analysts (ICIFA), member of Working Committee 
of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) 
and a member of the Central Bank of Kenya’s 
Consolidated Fund for Debt Management 
(CFDDM) Committee. 
He holds an undergraduate degree in 
mathematics and economics, a master’s 
degree in strategic management and is an 
Advanced Management Program (AMP) 
graduate from Strathmore/IESE (Spain) Business 
School. He is currently a Doctorate Student at 
University of Nairobi.
41
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Board Members Profiles (CONTINUED)
Mr. Michael Turner
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Nationality British
Background Finance, Accounting 
Appointment March 21, 2014
Mr. Turner holds a first-class degree in Civil 
Engineering. He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Mr. Turner was appointed a Board Director of 
the NSE on March 26, 2015. He is the Managing 
Director of Actis Limited in East Africa and is 
responsible for Actis’s USD 300 million Private 
Equity Fund with investment in Energy and Real 
Estate in East Africa.
He has extensive experience in private equity 
having served as the Manager of the Actis Africa 
Agribusiness Fund and the founder manager of 
the first Small and Medium Sized Enterprises 
(SME) Private Equity fund in East Africa – 
the Acacia Fund.
Mr. Turner has a deep understanding of Private 
Equity investment in agribusiness, financial 
services, real estate and infrastructure 
throughout Sub Saharan Africa. Prior to 
joining Actis, Michael worked in investment 
banking in London for Lehman Brothers and 
Kleinwort Benson, having started his career with 
Price Waterhouse.
Mr. Donald Wangunyu
Non-Executive Director representing 
Trading Participants
Nationality Kenyan
Background Finance & Investment
Appointment June 3rd, 2020
Mr. Wangunyu serves as the Chairman of the Board 
of the Kenya Association of Stockbrokers and 
Investment Banks (KASIB).
He also serves on the Board of Standard Investment 
Bank (SIB), chairs the risk and compliance committee 
of this Board and is the Chairman’s representative for 
Shariah products of the Investment bank.
Donald initiated the Capital Markets round-table, which 
consists of the Chairpersons and Chief Executives of the 
capital markets ecosystem of the country, where he is 
also a member and further serves on the Board of the 
Kenya National REITS. 
Donald further conceived and initiated the KASIB 
County Government Financing Program with a goal 
to deliver an ecosystem for alternative financing 
for counties, working closely with the respective 
County governments.
Donald’s management experience includes being the 
Founder and Chief Executive Officer of FourFront 
Management, the first and only fully licensed Robo-
Advisor in the Country, pioneering robo-advisory, 
high frequency trading (HFT) and short selling on the 
NSE, having pioneered mobile/SMS share trading in 
Kenya in 2008. 
His experience further includes being a member of the 
Capital Markets 10-year Master Plan implementation 
group and chairing the industry committee that oversaw 
the removal of capital gains tax from the Exchange.
Further, he served as a member of the Central 
Depository and Settlement Corporate’s (CDSC) Market 
Operations committee, as well as the system selection 
committees of the stockbrokers and investment banks, 
as well as the systems selection committee of the CDSC.
Further, his experience includes leading hybrid and 
remote teams in different time zones and he has 
extensive experience in AGILE project management 
framework, as well as business process automation 
(BPA) and he is a management 3.0 practitioner.
42
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Board Members Profiles (CONTINUED)
Mr. Stephen Chege
Non-Executive Director 
representing Listed Companies
Nationality Kenyan
Background Law
Appointment June 3rd, 2020
Mr. Chege has over 20 years’ experience in policy, 
legal and regulatory affairs and Environmental 
Social and Governance (ESG) matters, primarily 
within the telecommunications and ICT industry. 
He is the Chief Regulatory & External Affairs 
Officer at Vodacom Group, where his role 
entails safeguarding and growing Vodacom 
Group’s reputation, Government & stakeholder 
engagement, shaping the policy, legal and 
regulatory environment and overseeing the 
growth of Vodacom’s ESG agenda. He has held 
other roles at Safaricom including Chief External 
Affairs, Head of Regulatory and Public Policy, 
Senior Manager – Public Policy and Market 
Regulation and Principal In-house counsel. He 
was also the Public Policy Manager, Vodafone 
Group Public Policy in the UK.
He holds a Master of Laws (LLM) degree in 
International Trade and Investment Law from 
the University of Nairobi and a Bachelor of Laws 
from the same University. He is also a Certified 
(Company) Secretary.
Ms. Risper Alaro
Non-Executive Director 
representing listed companies
Nationality Kenyan 
Background Finance, Accounting
Appointment May 30, 2018.
Ms. Alaro holds an MBA in Finance from the 
United States International University Africa 
(USIU) and a Bachelor’s Degree in Business 
Management from Moi University. She is a 
fellow of the Association of Certified Chartered 
Accountants (FCCA), a member of the Institute 
of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya 
(ICPAK), an International Coach Federation 
Professional Certified Coach (PCC), and a 
Certified Executive Leadership Coach. She is a 
fellow of the Archbishop Desmond Tutu Africa 
Leadership Fellowship.
Ms. Alaro was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on the Board of NSE on May 30, 2018.  
She also serves as a Non-Executive Director on 
the Boards of Bank of Kigali PLC, Kenya Climate 
Ventures Ltd and Population Services Kenya 
(PSK). She is currently serves as the Group 
Finance Director at Centum Group PLC.
Isis Nyong’o
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Nationality Kenyan
Background E-Commerce & IT 
Appointment May 30, 2019
Isis brings deep experience in navigating 
the Africa business landscape. As a Partner 
at Asphalt & Ink, she advises leading global 
foundations, investors, and technology 
companies on their Africa strategies. She 
is well established in Africa’s technology 
ecosystem having played an instrumental role 
in shaping Africa’s digital economy through 
notable leadership positions at Google, InMobi, 
and MTV Networks. With a background that 
includes partnership development, early-
stage venture building and board service 
(public and private), she possesses a nuanced 
understanding of how to scale organizations 
across the continent. She is involved in various 
initiatives to improve gender equality including 
co-founding WomenWork, a digital network of 
entrepreneurial women through which she has a 
direct grasp of the challenges and opportunities 
in the women’s entrepreneurship ecosystem in 
Africa. Isis is a graduate of Stanford University & 
Harvard Business School and also serves on the 
board of LGT Venture Philanthropy.
43
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Board Members Profiles (CONTINUED)
Mr. John Niepold
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Nationality American
Background Economics
Appointment June 3, 2022
Mr. Niepold has over 25 years of experience in 
frontier investing in Africa and the Middle East. 
In addition to the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
where he serves as an Independent Director, 
Mr. Niepold is on the Board of Directors of the 
Integra MENA Fund and is a Senior Advisor to 
All Africa Partners, a UK based fund manager 
focused on listed equity investments in Africa. 
In 2010, he founded SQM Frontier Management 
LLP and served as the Managing Partner and 
Portfolio Manager for the firm’s Frontier Africa 
Fund until 2020. Prior to founding SQM, Mr. 
Niepold was a Portfolio Manager and Partner 
at Emerging Markets Management (EMM) 
where he launched and managed The Africa 
Emerging Markets Fund, the first fund dedicated 
to investing in Africa’s frontier stock markets in 
1993 as well as the Emerging Markets Middle 
East Fund in 2004. 
Prior to joining EMM, Mr. Niepold served as 
an equity analyst in Southeast Asia for Crosby 
Securities and as an independent consultant 
covering frontier markets. Mr. Niepold has a 
Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from 
Davidson College and a Master of Business 
Administration degree from the Kenan-Flagler 
Business School at the University of North 
Carolina/Chapel Hill.
Ms. Carole Kariuki
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Nationality Kenyan
Background Economics
Appointment  June 3, 2022
Carole Kariuki holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree 
in Economics and Sociology from the University 
of Nairobi and a Masters Degree in Public 
Administration from Bowling Green State 
University, Ohio, USA. She has also pursued 
several professional courses on Stakeholder 
Management, Leadership and Private Sector 
Development among others.
Carole before joining KEPSA, did work briefly 
for Barclays Bank of Kenya, Nairobi Chapel and 
Sagamore Institute for Public Policy Research, 
Indianapolis – Indiana, where she acted as a 
liaison between Kenya Private Sector Alliance 
(KEPSA) and the Institute before formally joining 
KEPSA. She worked for several years at KEPSA 
before being appointed KEPSA CEO.
Ms. Kariuki is credited for transforming KEPSA 
from a little known Business Organisation to 
one of the most influential Organisations in 
Kenya and Globally. KEPSA is the Apex body 
of the private sector in Kenya, galvanizing 
the private sector through public-private 
dialogue and influencing the economic and 
development agenda.
44
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Mr. Paul Mwai
Member - Finance and 
Strategy Committee, 
Trading Technology Committee 
Derivatives Market 
Oversight Committee.
Mr. Michael Turner
Chairman - Finance and 
Strategy Committee,  
Member - Audit, Risk & 
Compliance Committee  
Self Regulatory Organisation and 
Listing Committee.
Ms. Risper Alaro-
Mukoto
Member - Audit, Risk & 
Compliance Committee  
Remuneration, Nominating and 
Human Capital Committee.
Ms. Isis Nyong’o 
Madison
Chairperson - Self 
Regulatory Organisation and 
Listing Committee,  
Member - Audit, Risk & 
Compliance Committee  
Remuneration, Nominating and 
Human Capital Committee.
BOARD MEMBERS 
COMMITTEES MEMBERSHIP
45
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Mr. Donald 
Wangunyu
Chairman - the Trading 
Technology Committee,  
Member - Remuneration, 
Nominating and Human 
Capital Committee.
Mr. Stephen Chege
Member - Finance and 
Strategy Committee,  
Trading Technology Committee,  
Remuneration, Nominating and 
Human Capital Committee.
Mr. John Niepold
Chairman - Audit, Risk & 
Compliance Committee, Finance 
and Strategy Committee, 
Self Regulatory Organisation and 
Listing Committee.
Ms. Carole Kariuki
Chairperson - Remuneration, 
Nominating and Human 
Capital Committee  
Member of the Self 
Regulatory Organisation and 
Listing Committee,  
Finance and Strategy Committee.
BOARD MEMBERS COMMITTEES MEMBERSHIP (CONTINUED)
46
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Kuria Waithaka
Company Secretary & 
Chief Legal Officer
David Wainaina
Chief Operating Officer
Jane Kiarie
Chief Finance Officer
Mbithe Muema
Chief Business Officer
Irungu Wagemma
Chief Officer, Strategy, 
Risk & Compliance
Fredrick Okong’o
Chief Internal Audit
Titus Kiilu
Chief Officer, Regulatory Affairs
Lucy Kamar
Chief Officer, HR & Admin
Jackson Kiminje
Chief Officer, Investor Education & 
Capacity Development
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
MEMBERS
Frank Mwiti
Chief Executive Officer
47
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NSE 2023 
HIGHLIGHTS

2023 HIGHLIGHTS
H.E PRESIDENT DR. WILLIAM RUTO, C.G.H OFFICIATES THE HISTORIC LISTING OF THE LAPTRUST IMARA 
I-REIT AT THE BOURSE
On Wednesday, March 22, 2023, Kenya’s oldest pension 
scheme, the Local Authorities Pension Trust (LAPTRUST) 
listed the first Income- Real Estate Investment Trust (I-REIT) 
by a pension fund on the NSE at a ceremony officiated by 
His Excellency Dr. William Samoei Ruto, C.G.H., President 
of the Republic of Kenya and Commander-in-Chief of the 
Defence Forces.
Dubbed the ‘LAPTRUST Imara I-REIT’, the listing of the Income 
REIT marked an important milestone for the LAPTRUST 
scheme and the Kenyan capital markets as a whole as it 
provided investors with a unique opportunity to invest in a 
diversified portfolio of income-generating real estate assets. 
The listing also also sought to spur other pension schemes 
heavily invested in physical assets to unlock liquidity for the 
benefit of pensioners .
Speaking during the bell ringing ceremony, H.E Dr. William 
Ruto, C.G.H noted “I am delighted to be part of this historic 
moment in the Kenyan capital markets. The listing of the 
LAPTRUST Imara I-REIT is a significant milestone, and I 
commend the Board of Trustees of the LAPTRUST scheme, 
the scheme’s corporate administrator, CPF Financial Services, 
the NSE, the CMA and all stakeholders involved in this 
landmark transaction.”
“The listing of the LAPTRUST Imara I-REIT is a significant 
achievement for CPF Financial Services, and we are proud 
to be part of this historic moment in the Kenyan capital 
markets. We believe that the Income REIT offers investors 
a unique opportunity to invest in a diversified portfolio of 
income-generating real estate assets, while also benefiting 
from the potential capital appreciation of these assets,” said 
CPF Group Managing Director/CEO, Hosea Kili, OGW, during 
the listing ceremony.
The NSE LAUNCHES TWO NEW INDICES AND REVIEWS THE NSE 20 SHARE INDEX CONSTITUENT 
COMPANIES
On September 4, 2023, the NSE launched two new market 
indices, NSE 10 Share Index (N10) and the NSE Bond Index 
(NSE-BI). The two indices track the performance of the equities 
market and bonds market respectively. This development 
followed extensive engagements with various stakeholders 
including potential issuers of structured products like the 
Exchange Traded Funds (ETF).
The N10 Index is based on a set of 10 companies, namely, 
Safaricom Plc, Equity Group Holdings Plc, KCB Group Plc, The 
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited, ABSA Bank Kenya Plc, 
East African Breweries Plc, NCBA Group Plc, Kenya Electricity 
Generating Company Plc, Kenya Re Insurance Corporation 
Limited, Centum Investment Co Plc. The constituent 
companies list will be reviewed semi-annually.
One of the key elements of this index is that its based on 
market capitalization float adjusted methodology and will be 
distributed on a daily basis.
On the other hand, the NSE Bond Index (NSE-BI) will be a 
weekly index which will be distributed together with the 
NSE Yield curve. The index will be based on the benchmark 
Government bonds listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange. 
It is expected that this index will form part of a fixed rate future 
contracts that will be issued on the NSE derivatives market.
In line with best practices in respect of indices management, 
the NSE has reviewed the NSE 20 Share index, replacing WPP 
Scan Group Plc, Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc, and Diamond 
Trust Bank Kenya with CIC Insurance Group Plc, Bank of Kigali 
Group Plc and I&M Holdings Plc respectively, on the list of 
constituent companies.
1
The President, (4th from the left) is joined by government 
officials and capital markets stakeholders during the listing 
ceremony
2
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
49
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NSE 2023 HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
Vivo Fashion Group Limited Embarks on a New Journey of Growth with NSE’s Ibuka Program
On October 18 2023, Vivo Fashion Group Limited joined 
Ibuka, NSE’s premium incubation and acceleration program 
for high-growth companies in Kenya. Founded in 2011, Vivo 
Fashion Group is the largest ladies’ Made in Africa fashion 
brand designing and manufacturing 100% on the African 
continent. The company’s focus is on creating economic 
opportunities in Africa through fashion. With a vision to 
see “Africa dress herself, and the world” Vivo designs and 
produces affordable, widely accessible and good-quality 
clothing specifically for women of colour. The company 
currently boasts 24 retail stores across Kenya, Rwanda and 
Uganda and employs over 360 employees, of which over 
70% are women. The group, which also includes Shop Zetu, 
East Africa’s fastest-growing online fashion marketplace 
www.ShopZetu.com, aims to inspire the next generation of 
African fashion entrepreneurs to aim high and dream big. 
Shop Zetu hosts over 350 international and local fashion, 
beauty, and accessory brands.
Speaking during the admission ceremony, Mr. Paul Mwai, NSE 
vice-chairman noted, “The admission of Vivo Fashion Group 
Limited onto the NSE Ibuka Program is a testament to the 
firm’s commitment to exploring fundraising opportunities 
in the capital markets to enhance the company’s growth 
and development”.
“The Ibuka Program will enable Vivo Fashion Group to 
restructure its business in line with its short and long-term 
vision and strategic priorities, thus positioning it well to 
pursue debt or equity capital market transactions,” he added.
Commenting on the admission, Vivo Fashion Group Managing 
Director Ms Wandia Gichuru noted that Vivo is keen on 
tapping into Kenya’s capital markets for financing.
“We believe the capital markets have the ability to enable 
our business to access cheap and long-term capital that will 
be critical in financing our next phase of growth as we target 
to become the largest ladies’ fashion brand on the continent”.
Ibuka is a premium incubation and acceleration program 
aimed at promoting companies’ development by preparing 
them as they pursue various equity or debt capital markets 
transactions in Kenya.
3
Vivo Fashion Group Ltd CEO, Ms. Wandia Gichuru addressing 
the congregation at the bell ringing ceremony for joining the 
Ibuka program.
The NSE Chairman, Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS making remarks to the 
audience at the RAK Conference 2023.
The REITS Association of Kenya 
(RAK) Hosted Its Flagship 
Conference, The 2023 RAK Annual 
Conference (1st November 2023).
The REITs Association of Kenya (RAK) hosted its 
2023 RAK Annual Conference, aimed at building 
momentum and unlocking the power of REITs 
in East Africa. The conference, which covered 
topics such as legal and regulatory frameworks, 
market development, investment opportunities, 
innovations, investor education, public-private 
partnerships, sustainable and impact investing. 
The conference brought together over 200 
industry experts, policymakers, investors, and real 
estate professionals to explore opportunities to 
grow REITs in East Africa.
4
50
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NSE 2023 HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
 THE NSE PLC approves the admission of the Kshs. 3,000,000,000.00 islamic secured residential lease based  
security (LINZI SUKUK) on the unquoted securities platform
On November 7, 2023 the NSE approved the admission of the 
Linzi Sukuk on the NSE Unquoted Securities Platform (USP) 
making the product the first Shari’ah compliant product to be 
admitted on the platform.
The Linzi Sukuk, issued by Linzi FinCo Trust, a common 
law unincorporated trust, is a Kshs. three billion ( Kshs. 
3,000,000,000.00) Islamic secured residential based security 
with a maturity period of 15 years offering an internal rate of 
return of 11.13%. The proceeds from the issue will be used 
in the financing, design, construction, and commissioning of 
3,069 institutional houses.
Commenting on the approval, Mr. Kiprono Kittony, Chairman, 
NSE noted, “We congratulate Linzi FinCo Trust for this historic 
milestone of pioneering an Islamic finance product to the 
market. Kenya holds huge potential in Shari’ah compliant 
instruments that can play a significant role in bridging the 
vast financing needs, across various priority sectors such as 
infrastructure and housing in the country”.
The Unquoted Securities Platform (USP) is an automated 
solution for the issuance and trading of securities of 
unquoted companies and currently hosts the Acorn Student 
Accommodation Development Real Estate Investment Trust 
(D-REIT) and the Income Real Estate Investment Trust (I-REIT). 
The platform is used for value discovery, capital raising and 
trading experience by small and medium enterprises before 
graduating to the listing segments offered by the NSE. The 
Linzi Sukuk brings the total number of admitted securities on 
the USP to three.
His Excellency Dr. William Ruto Officiated the 26th African Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA) Annual 
Conference and 30th Anniversary Celebrations in Nairobi, Kenya. (23rd November 2023).
On November 23, 2023 His Excellency Dr. William Ruto 
officiated the opening ceremony of the 26th African Securities 
Exchanges Association (ASEA) Annual Conference and its 
30th Anniversary Celebrations at the Villa Rosa Kempinski 
Hotel in Nairobi.
The two day conference themed; “Unlocking Africa’s Stock 
Exchange Potential for Sustained Economic Development” 
brought together the most influential stakeholders across 
African stock markets to develop concrete solutions to the 
challenges facing the sector and build a more inclusive and 
robust pan-African financial markets ecosystem.
The conference also sought to enhance opportunities 
for collaboration to accelerate the continent’s sustained 
economic growth.
Speaking during the conference, His Excellency Dr. William 
Ruto noted that, “Stock exchanges play a significant role 
in mobilizing domestic resources and international capital 
critical to Africa’s economic growth and development”.
Making his address at the Conference, Mr. Thapelo Thseole, 
President, African Securities Exchanges Association noted,“ 
The 2023 ASEA Annual Conference builds on the Association’s 
strategic initiatives aimed at repositioning the place for 
Stock Exchanges on the continent to offer more value for the 
continent’s economic growth”.
“The African Securities Exchanges Association remains well 
positioned to further discussions aimed at building robust 
stock markets and leveraging the opportunities that Africa’s 
economic prospects present”, he added.
Reiterating his remarks, Mr. Kiprono Kittony, Chairman NSE 
said “ African Stock Exchanges have a critical role to play in 
accelerating growth. The evolution of African stock markets 
holds the potential to catalyse domestic savings, increase 
both the quantity and quality of investments, and elevate the 
overall functionality of domestic financial systems.
The Annual ASEA Conference is a flagship initiative that seeks 
to enhance knowledge mining and sharing, networking as 
well as building collaborations for growth.
5
7
H.E President Dr. William Ruto, C.G.H witnessing the live 
cross-border trade between BRVM  Cote d’Ivoire and Nairobi 
Securities Exchange.
51
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023


ENTERPRISE RISK (ERM)  
FRAME WORK
Macros
Global economic growth in 2023 was below expectations 
at 3.0%, as the world continued with a recovery trajectory. 
The conflicts in Europe and the Middle East weighed on 
economic activity and central banks around the world kept 
strict fiscal policies in place to stem the rise in inflation. 
Due to reduced commodity prices, global headline 
inflation in 2023 was 6.9%, while core inflation decreased 
at a slower pace.
The Kenyan economy grew by 5.9% in the third quarter 
of 2023, majorly due to improved weather conditions 
that bolstered the agricultural sector. The Central Bank of 
Kenya actively battled to keep inflation down and hiked the 
rate by 375 basis points to 12.50% by the end of 2023 to 
cushion against the country’s rising inflationary pressure, 
that would have an undesired effect on the economy. By 
the end of 2023, inflation had decreased from a peak of 9% 
at the beginning of the year to 6.9%. 
In 2023, the average value of the Kenya Shilling against the 
US dollar was Kshs. 139.60, indicating a decline in supply 
and an increase in demand for US dollars.
Enterprise Risk Management
The year 2023 presented the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
(NSE) with both opportunities and challenges. In this 
dynamic landscape, our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
framework proved instrumental in navigating uncertainties 
and safeguarding shareholder value. This report outlines 
the key pillars of our ERM framework and highlights its 
contributions throughout the year.
Aligning with Best Practices:
The NSE’s ERM framework adheres to internationally 
recognized standards like ISO 31000 and COSO Enterprise 
Risk Management 2017. This ensures our approach is 
comprehensive, robust, and aligns with global best practices. 
Additionally, we remain compliant with all relevant laws 
and regulations governing the Kenyan capital markets.
Adapting to a Changing 
Landscape:
The NSE recognized the potential impact of several 
emerging risks on market stability and investor confidence 
throughout 2023. These risks included:
	» Global Economic Slowdown:  Concerns about a 
potential global slowdown due to rising inflation, 
tightening monetary policies, and the global tensions 
potentially dampened investor sentiment and 
potentially led to a decrease in foreign investments 
in the Kenyan market.
	» Rising Interest Rates: The Central Bank of Kenya›s 
(CBK) interest rate hikes in 2023 to combat inflation, 
while beneficial for long-term economic stability, 
could have made stocks less attractive compared to 
fixed-income instruments offering higher returns in a 
rising interest rate environment.
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
53
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

ENTERPRISE RISK (ERM) FRAME WORK (CONTINUED)
Responding to the Challenges:
In response to these emerging risks, the NSE proactively 
adjusted its risk management strategies:
	» Investor Education and Communication: The 
NSE prioritized investor education by organizing 
workshops and seminars to equip investors with 
the knowledge to navigate challenging market 
conditions and make informed decisions during 
periods of domestic economic pressure and 
political uncertainty.
	» Product Innovation and Diversification: To cater 
to changing investor preferences in a rising interest 
rate environment, the NSE explored the development 
and introduction of new investment products 
offering competitive returns and risk-mitigation 
features like the ETF.
	» Collaboration with Regulatory Authorities: The 
NSE actively collaborated with regulatory bodies to 
ensure a coordinated approach to mitigating risks 
associated with rising interest rates and potential 
regulatory changes.
	» Promoting Sustainable Investment Practices: 
Recognizing the long-term economic and market 
stability implications of climate change, the NSE 
encouraged listed companies to adopt and disclose 
sustainable business practices, potentially attracting 
environmentally conscious investors and mitigating 
long-term climate-related risks.
These adjustments reflect the NSE’s commitment to proactive 
risk management. By adapting its strategies to the evolving 
landscape, the NSE aimed to maintain market integrity, 
protect investor interests, and foster a more resilient and 
sustainable capital market environment for Kenya.
Key Players in Risk Management:
1. NSE Board and Risk 
Committee
	» Oversight and Guidance: 
Provides strategic direction and 
guidance on the overall risk 
management framework, ensuring 
it aligns with the NSE›s long-term 
objectives and risk tolerance.
	» Monitoring and Evaluation: 
Actively monitors the 
implementation of the risk 
management framework, 
evaluating its effectiveness 
in identifying, assessing, and 
mitigating risks.
	» Corrective Action: Drives 
corrective actions based on 
reported risks, ensuring timely 
and appropriate response 
to potential threats and 
vulnerabilities.
2. NSE Management
	» Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) Framework 
Implementation: Holds 
responsibility for effectively 
implementing the ERM framework 
across all organizational functions 
and departments.
	» Risk Integration: Ensures that 
risk management principles 
are integrated into all business 
operations, fostering a culture 
of risk awareness throughout 
the organization.
	» Reporting and Communication: 
Regularly reports risk 
information to the NSE Board 
and Risk Committee, facilitating 
informed decision-making and 
promoting transparency.
3. Chief Executive  
Officer 
	» Leadership and Championing: 
Champions and leads the 
implementation of ERM, 
emphasizing its importance as 
a cornerstone of sustainable 
growth and responsible 
business practices.
	» Process Definition and Training: 
Spearheads the definition of 
robust risk management processes 
and facilitates training programs 
to equip all employees with the 
necessary skills and knowledge 
to identify, assess, and manage 
risks effectively.
	» Stakeholder Communication: 
Presents risk reports and insights 
to relevant stakeholders, 
including the Board, investors, 
and regulators, fostering 
understanding and building 
trust in the NSE’s risk 
management capabilities.
54
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Beyond Compliance: A 
Strategic Tool:
At the NSE, risk management transcends its role as a mere 
reporting or compliance obligation. It is embedded within 
our management culture, serving as a strategic tool for 
informed decision-making. This approach allows us to:
Identify and mitigate potential risks 
before they impact our operations, 
safeguarding financial performance and 
market stability.
Proactively manage risks associated with 
new initiatives and ventures, enabling 
calculated growth and innovation.
Optimize resource allocation by focusing 
on the most critical risks, ensuring 
efficient utilization of resources.
Looking Ahead: Continuous 
Improvement:
We remain committed to continuously refining and 
strengthening our ERM framework. Key areas of focus for 
the future include:
	» Investing in ongoing training and development  to 
equip our workforce with the necessary skills and 
knowledge for effective risk management.
	» Leveraging technology to enhance risk identification, 
assessment, and monitoring processes, allowing for 
real-time data analysis and proactive risk mitigation.
	» Maintaining 
open 
communication 
with 
all 
stakeholders regarding our risk management practices 
and approach, fostering transparency and trust.
By prioritizing proactive and strategic risk management, 
the NSE is well-positioned to navigate the uncertainties of 
today’s dynamic market landscape. Through continuous 
improvement and adaptation, we remain confident in our 
ability to deliver sustainable value to our stakeholders 
and contribute to the growth and stability of the Kenyan 
capital markets.
Driving Economic Growth Through 
Value Creation
Introduction:
The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) serves as a critical 
engine for economic development by facilitating the 
efficient flow of capital and enabling businesses to access 
the resources they need to grow and innovate. Our value 
creation process is deeply intertwined with our core mission. 
Let’s explore how we continuously seek to enhance value 
for our stakeholders.
Core Areas of Value Creation:
Our ability to create long-term value for our stakeholders 
is dependent upon strategic investments and sound 
management across various key areas:
	» Finances: Robust financial performance ensures 
long-term sustainability and the opportunity to 
reinvest in the exchange’s future. In 2023, we saw 
enhancements such as increased profitability, 
growth in shareholder value and expanded revenue 
streams. These financial resources enable us to 
drive innovation, modernize our infrastructure, and 
increase the attractiveness of our marketplace.
	» Strategic 
Partnerships 
and 
Relationships: 
Collaborations with entities like the Capital Markets 
Authority-Kenya, Kenya Association of Stockbrokers 
and Investment Banks (KASIB), The Central Bank 
of Kenya and the Kenyan Government, and other 
market stakeholders are crucial to our success. These 
collaborations foster a robust and well-functioning 
capital market ecosystem.
	» Innovation: The NSE remains committed to 
innovative solutions that address evolving market 
needs. In 2023, we launched the NSE Connect, 
a platform that aims to that brings together 
enterprises in need of capital, financiers looking 
for investing opportunities and advisors to bridge 
the gap between the two. These initiatives enable 
greater efficiency, expand market access, and attract 
new investors, ultimately enhancing value creation 
for all stakeholders.
	» Brand and Reputation: The strength of our 
brand builds trust and confidence among market 
participants. We are committed to maintaining a 
reputation for transparency, integrity, and adherence 
to global best practices. 
	» Talent: Our skilled and experienced workforce 
drives the NSE’s vision forward. We continued to 
invest in attracting, developing, and retaining high 
talent to ensure optimal performance and long-term 
sustainability. 
ENTERPRISE RISK (ERM) FRAME WORK (CONTINUED)
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
55
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

ENTERPRISE RISK (ERM) FRAME WORK (CONTINUED)
Our dedication to value creation is ongoing. We 
anticipate even greater opportunities to leverage 
our resources, partnerships, brand reputation, and 
talent to generate value for our stakeholders and 
contribute to Kenya’s economic development in 
the years to come.
2023 & Beyond
NSE 2020-2024 Strategy 
The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) continued implementation of the five-year strategic plan in 
2023, focusing on four key pillars i.e. Sustainable Business Growth, Strategic Partnerships, Operational 
Excellence, and People. This report details the progress made in implementing these strategies during 2023.
	» The exchange prioritized initiatives to enhance 
market liquidity and attract new listings. Although no 
listings were secured in 2022, 2023 saw a renewed 
focus on increasing the number of listed entities. 
This included: Collaboration with the government, 
resulting in a commitment to list at least three large 
state-owned enterprises by year-end. Focusing on 
private sector issuances and leveraging technology 
partnerships and Targeting the affordable housing 
sector, with four listings expected by year-end.
	» Efforts to expand the investor base and enhance 
financial literacy included Partnering with Telcos, 
banks, and the Integrated Population Registration 
Services (IPRS) to facilitate easier market access, 
promoting 
independent 
research 
on 
illiquid 
counters and implementing findings to improve 
market liquidity. Public education and social media 
engagement campaigns.
	» The NSE actively pursued partnerships to broaden its 
reach and foster market development Engaging in 
strategic alliances with other exchanges. Leveraging 
memberships in international organizations like 
the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) and the 
African Stock Exchange Association (ASEA).
	» The NSE maintained close collaboration with 
regulatory authorities like the Capital Markets 
Authority (CMA) and the Ministry of ICT to Advocate 
for policy changes that support market growth and 
investor protection. Enhance joint public education 
initiatives. Collaborate on identifying and listing 
technology startups.
	» The NSE prioritized continuous system upgrades 
and security enhancements. Development and 
implementation of a Business Continuity Plan 
(BCP) and a cyber-security policy. Establishing an 
Innovation Committee to explore and implement 
new ideas for market improvement.
	» The exchange aimed to strengthen market integrity 
and transparency through implementing a robust 
market oversight framework. Collaborating with 
the CMA to access their multi-asset surveillance 
system. 
Developing 
a 
corporate 
governance, 
social responsibility, and sustainability index for 
listed entities.
	» The NSE invested in developing its workforce by 
cascading the corporate strategy to individual levels 
and linking individual performance to organizational 
goals. Implementing a performance management 
framework with 360-degree feedback. Conducting 
training 
needs 
assessments 
and 
developing 
targeted training programs. Fostering a culture of 
diversity and inclusion through policy reviews and 
awareness campaigns.
56
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

ANNUAL REPORT 
AND FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
for the Year Ended 31 December 2023

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 	
59-65
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT	
66-69
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY	
70
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT	
71-73
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME	
74-75
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION	
76-77
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION	
78-79
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY	
80
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY	
81
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS	
82
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS	
83-139
NOTICE OF THE 70TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOMINATION AND CONSENT FORMS
TABLE OF
CONTENTS

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT
Overview
Corporate governance is at the heart of the structures and 
processes guiding the leadership of the Group. The Group has 
instituted systems to ensure that high standards of corporate 
governance are maintained at all levels of the organization 
and is in compliance with the requirements of all applicable 
laws and regulations including but not limited to the Capital 
Markets Act and regulations, rules and guidelines thereunder 
on Corporate Governance and the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange (NSE) regulations, rules, policies and procedures.
The Role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible to the Group’s 
shareholders for the long-term success of the Group and its 
strategic direction, its values and governance. It provides the 
leadership, integrity, enterprise and good judgment necessary 
to meet its business objectives within the framework of 
its internal controls while also discharging the Group’s 
obligations to its shareholders. 
The Key Responsibilities of the Board include: 
	» To define and chart out the Group’s vision and mission. 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the attainment 
of the Group’s vision;
	» To set the strategy, approve business plans and annual 
budgets and any subsequent material changes in 
strategic direction;
	» To monitor Management’s implementation of 
the strategic plans and financial objectives as 
defined by the Board;
	» To define levels of materiality, reserving specific powers 
to itself and delegating other matters with the necessary 
written authority to Management;
	» To ensure that the Group is managed with a view to 
ensuring that the Group is ethical in all its dealings and 
has put in place sustainable business practices;
	» To ensure that procedures and processes are in place to 
protect the Group’s assets and reputation;
	» To ensure compliance by the Group with all relevant 
laws and regulations, audit and accounting principles, 
and such other principles as may be established by the 
Board from time to time;
	» To approve Terms of Reference of Board Committees and 
make appointments and changes in the composition of 
such Committees as are established from time to time;
	» To identify key risks for the Group and establish 
mechanisms for managing or mitigating them;
	» To set policies on internal controls and obtain regular 
assurance that the system is functioning effectively and 
is effective in managing risks;
	» To appoint the Chief Executive Officer and senior 
management staff; 
	» To procure suitable external auditors for 
shareholder: and
	» To exercise such other powers as are necessary to 
enforce the requirements of the Capital Markets Act and 
regulations and guidelines thereunder, the NSE’s Articles 
of Association and the internal regulations and rules 
governing the Group.
Division of Responsibilities
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible 
for the sustainable operations of the Group. Their roles are 
separate, with each having distinct and clearly defined 
roles and responsibilities. The Chairman directs the Board’s 
business and acts as it’s facilitator and guide ensuring that the 
Board is effective in its tasks of setting and implementing the 
Group’s direction and strategy. The Chairman is responsible 
for leadership of the Board, for ensuring its effectiveness 
on all aspects of its role and for facilitating the productive 
contribution of all Directors. The Chairman sets the agenda for 
the Board meetings in consultation with the Chief Executive 
Officer. The Chairman is accountable to the Board for leading 
the direction of the Group’s corporate and financial strategy 
and for the overall supervision of the policies, rules and 
regulations governing the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer has overall responsibility for the 
business of the Group. The Chief Executive Officer enforces 
the provisions of the Capital Markets Act (the “Act”) and the 
rules of the Group and immediately reports any violations to 
the Board and the Capital Markets Authority (“CMA/Authority”) 
and ensures compliance with the requirements of the Act, and 
rules in operations, transactions and all affairs of the Group 
including listings and continuous reporting obligations of 
listed companies.
The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for the 
supervision of the trading activities of the Group and takes 
all necessary steps to maintain orderly and efficient trading 
and functioning of facilities, in accordance with the Group’s 
rules and as prescribed by the Act.
The Chief Executive Officer reports periodically to the Board 
on all matters concerning the operation and affairs of the 
Group, attends all meetings of the Committees and provides 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
59
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
technical input where necessary and promotes the objectives and functions of the Group. The Chief Executive Officer also liaises 
with the Authority and its representatives in respect of administrative, regulatory and technical matters of the Group. The Chief 
Executive Officer is also responsible for the stewardship of the Group’s assets and, jointly with the Chairman, for representation 
of the Group externally.
Board Composition
As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc is constituted as follows:
(a)	 Five (5) Independent and Non-Executive Directors;
(b)	 Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Trading Participants;
(c)	 Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Listed Companies; and the
(d)	 One (1) Chief Executive Officer.
Below is the current composition of the Board:
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Paul Mwai
Vice Chairman/Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director
Mr. John Niepold	
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Michael Turner
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Stephen Chege
Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director
Mr. Donald Wangunyu
Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director
Ms. Risper Alaro
Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director
Ms. Isis Madison
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ms. Carol Kariuki
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Frank Mwiti
Chief Executive Officer
Board Committees
The Board established six (6) Board Committees with delegated authority to assist the Board effectively carry out its 
obligations. These Board Committees are:
a)
Finance and Strategy Committee
b)
Trading and Technology Committee
c)
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 
d)
Self-Regulatory Organization and Listing Committee (SROLC)
e)
Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital Committee 
f)
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 
Other than the Derivatives Market Oversight Committee and Trading and Technology Committee, both which have external 
resource persons, all other Committees are composed of Board members only.
At each ordinary Board meeting, the chairpersons of the Board Committees are required to report to the Board on 
the highlights of the deliberations of the Committees and to escalate to the Board all matters requiring the Board’s 
consideration and approval. 
Division of Responsibilities (continued)
60
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
The Board reviews the Committee composition every year 
to ensure that the Committees have suitable, appropriate 
and relevant skills required to effectively discharge the 
mandate of the Committees and the Board as a whole. 
The review also aids in incorporating into Committees any 
members who may have retired from the Board and also 
those who may join the Board in the course of the year. The 
Committee membership review took place in June 2023.
The Committee Terms of Reference are also reviewed on an 
annual basis to ensure that they are up to date to factor in 
any developments in the organizations strategic direction, 
operations, industry practice and global best practices. The 
annual review in 2023 took place in June 2023.
Below is a summary of the mandates, functions, membership 
and activities of the various committees:
•	
Finance and Strategy Committee
The mandate of the Finance and Strategy Committee 
is to oversee the implementation of the NSE Strategy 
and strategic business development initiatives of the 
NSE, including training and to deal with all matters 
relating to the prudent financial management of the 
Group, which includes NSE PLC subsidiaries, including 
reviewing and advising on the financial statements and 
management accounts. The Committee also evaluates 
and advises on potential investment opportunities 
and also oversees procurement at the NSE to 
ensure compliance with the Procurement manuals 
and procedures.
•	
Trading and Technology Committee
The Trading and Technology Committee’s mandate is 
to assist the Board in relation to trading and markets 
operations, information technology infrastructure, 
data service provision and dissemination of market 
information to capital markets stakeholders and 
the general public. The Committee also monitors 
the state of technology capabilities within NSE and 
identifies and manages the associated risks and 
opportunities that could have significant impact on the 
organization’s operations.
•	
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 
The mandate of the Audit, Risk and Compliance 
Committee 
is 
to 
monitor, 
review 
and 
make 
recommendations to the Board on the adequacy 
of NSE’s internal control, internal and external 
audit programs, risk management and compliance 
monitoring systems and to monitor the organization’s 
Corporate Governance practices including compliance 
with relevant laws, regulations and rules in respect of 
the Group’s business.
•	
Self-Regulatory Organization and Listing 
Committee (SROLC)
The mandate of the Self-Regulatory Organization 
and Listing Committee is to enforce the NSE Market 
Participants Business Conduct and Enforcement Rules, 
2014, the Listing Rules, Continuous Listing Obligations 
Regulations, the Derivatives Rules, the NSE Trading 
Rules and any other Regulations or Rules of the NSE as 
are in force, as may be necessary for the maintenance 
of a fair and orderly market and to ensure compliance 
with any other capital market legislation and the 
enforcement powers of which have been delegated to 
the SROLC function of the NSE.
•	
Remuneration, Nominating and Human 
Capital Committee
The Remuneration, Nominating and Human Capital 
Committee advises and assists the Board in effective 
discharge of its responsibilities in relation to the 
composition of the Board and its remuneration, 
and to establish a plan of continuity for the Chief 
Executive Officer as appropriate. The Committee also 
advises, implements and assists the Board in effective 
discharge of its responsibilities in relation to Human 
Capital Management.
•	
Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 
The Derivatives Market Oversight Committee advises 
the Board on the oversight of, and strategic issues 
relating to the NSE’s Derivatives Market and the 
Derivatives Clearing House including addressing 
conflict of interest matters regarding futures brokers, 
issues arising in the design of derivatives contracts and 
undertaking trading and surveillance functions.
Board Committees (continued)
61
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2023
Director
Classification
Designation
 
Board
Finance & 
Strategy 
Committee
Trading and 
Technology 
Committee
Audit, Risk & 
Compliance 
Committee
Self-
Regulatory 
Organization 
and Listing 
Committee
Remuneration, 
Nominating & 
Human Capital 
Committee
Derivatives 
Market 
Oversight 
Committee
K Kittony, 
EBS
Non-executive
Chairman - Board
Membership

Attendance
6/6
P Mwai
Non-executive
Vice Chairman - Board 
Membership




Attendance
6/6
5/5
4/4
4/4
J Niepold
Non-executive
Chairman - Audit, Risk & 
Compliance Committee
Membership




Attendance
6/6
5/5
4/4
4/4
M Turner
Non-executive
Chairman -  Finance & 
Strategy  Committee
Membership




Attendance
6/6
5/5
4/4
4/4
D Wangunyu
Non-executive
Chairman – Trading and 
Technology Committee
Membership




Attendance
6/6
4/4
6/6
4/4
S Chege
Non-executive
Membership




Attendance
6/6
4/5
4/4
5/6
C Kariuki
Non-executive
Chairperson - Remuneration 
Nominating & Human Capital 
Committee
Membership
 



Attendance
5/6
4/5
3/4
6/6
R Alaro
Non-executive
Membership



Attendance
4/6
3/4
5/6
I Madison
Non-executive
Chairperson – Self-Regulatory 
Organization & Listing 
Committee
Membership




Attendance
6/6
3/4
4/4
6/6
G Odundo*
Chief Executive Officer
Membership
Attendance
6/6
5/5
4/4
4/4
4/4
5/6
4/4
*Retired as a Director of the Company upon the expiry of his contract as Chief Executive Officer of the company on 1st March 2024. 
The Chief Executive Officer does not form the quorum for Board Committee meetings and attends by invitation.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
62
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND 
ATTENDED IN 2023
BOARD COMMITTEES WITH EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS
1)	 Derivatives Market Oversight Committee
Name
Nature of Participation
Attendance
J Swai
Chairperson 
4/4
E Kigen
Member
3/4
A Mulisa
Member
3/4
2)	 Trading and Technology Committee
Name
Nature of participation
 Attendance
J Waiguru
Member
4/4
E Kihanda
Member
3/4
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FACT SHEET
Number of Board Members
9
Number of Independent Non-Executive Directors
5
Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Trading Participants
2
Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Listed Companies
2
Number of Executive Directors
1
Number of women on the Board
3
Separate Chairman and CEO
YES
Terms of Reference for Board Committees
YES
Independent Audit Committee
YES
Number of financial experts on Audit Committee
3
Number of Board Meetings held in 2023
6
Number of Annual General Meetings in 2023
1
Re-election of Directors in accordance with Articles of Association
YES
Board Induction Programs conducted
YES
63
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
(a)	 Share capital
The authorized and issued share capital of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC consists of only ordinary shares as disclosed 
in note 25 to the financial statements.
(b)	 Top 20 Shareholders at 31 December 2023
No  Shareholder
  Number of shares
%
1.	 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE004468
41,764,400
16.04%
2.	 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE22446
20,329,830
7.81%
3.	 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE003414
14,356,494
5.51%
4.	 Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030823
12,997,399
4.99%
5.	 Stanbic Nominees Ltd AC NR1031436
12,071,233
4.63%
6.	 The Investor Compensation Fund Board
8,750,000
3.36%
7.	 The Permanent Secretary to The Treasury
8,750,000
3.36%
8.	 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE22816
7,247,499
2.78%
9.	 Sterling Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
10.	Nyaga Stock Brokers Ltd
7,000,000
2.69%
11.	Discount Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
12.	ABC Capital Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
13.	Kingdom Securities Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
14.	Renaissance Capital (Kenya) Limited
7,000,000
2.69%
15.	Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1031142
6,879,090
2.64%
16.	Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited A/C 063123501897
6,786,143
2.61%
17.	Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Limited
4,300,000
1.65%
18.	Africa Allied investors Ltd
4,236,300
1.63%
19.	Stanbic Nominees Limited A/C - C.4536-NR1031453
4,179,000
1.60%
20.	NCBA Investment Bank Limited
3,500,000
1.34%
Top 20 shareholders
198,147,388
76.09%
Others
62,305,013
23.91%
Total issued shares
260,452,401
100%
(c)	 Distribution of Shareholders at 31 December 2023
Number of Shareholders
Number of shares
%
Less than 500
3,397
578,167
0.22%
501 – 5,000
9,005
12,063,461
4.63%
5,001 – 10,000
626
4,547,598
1.75%
10,001 – 100,000
668
17,312,263
6.65%
100,001 – 1,000,000
53
14,139,991
5.43%
Above 1,000,000
29
211,810,921
81.32%
Total 
13,778
260,452,401
100%
64
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
(d)	 Shareholder Analysis by Domicile at 31 December 2023
Number of Shareholders
Number of shares
%
Individual investors
Local
 12,961 
 37,748,649 
14.49%
East African
 86 
 275,971 
0.11%
Foreign
 117 
 4,521,754 
1.74%
 13,164 
 42,546,374 
16.34%
Institutional investors
Local
 594 
 86,660,803 
33.27%
East African
 4 
 3,735 
0.00%
Foreign
 16 
 131,241,489 
50.39%
 614 
 217,906,027 
83.66%
Total
 13,778 
 260,452,401 
100.00%
(e)	 Directors Holding Shares at 31 December 2023
Number of shares
%
Mr. Geoffrey Odundo
174,082
0.00%
Mr. Stephen Chege
15,467
0.00%
Total
189,549
0.00%
CAPITAL STRUCTURE (CONTINUED)
65
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT 
TO AUDIT
Statement of Group’s policy on 
directors’ remuneration 
(a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
The Board establishes and approves formal and 
transparent remuneration policies to attract and retain 
both executive and non-executive Board members. 
These policies clearly state remuneration elements 
such as Directors’ fees and attendance allowances 
that are competitive and in line with the industry. 
Non-Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance 
for every meeting attended. They are not eligible for 
provident fund membership. The Company does not 
grant any personal loans, guarantees, share options 
or long-term incentives to its non-executive Directors. 
The company has taken out insurance covers for 
the non-executive Directors covering Directors and 
Officers liability insurance cover and group personal 
accident covering death, permanent total disability 
and medical expenses.
The Chief Executive Officer is the only executive 
director on the Board and the company has in place 
a remuneration policy which is aimed at ensuring 
compensation is competitive and aligned to the 
company’s strategic objectives. The Executive Director’s 
remuneration and benefits consists of: -
	» A monthly salary determined on appointment.
	» An annual bonus based on the performance of 
the company, individual performance and general 
inflation considerations.
	» Contributory staff provident scheme
	» Non-cash benefits relating to a company-maintained 
vehicle and insurance cover.
There were no substantial changes to the Director’s 
remuneration policy during the year 2023.
(b)	 NSE Clear Limited
A managing director or other executive officer 
shall receive such remuneration (whether by way 
of salary, commission or participation in profits, 
or partly in one way and partly in another) as the 
directors may determine.
There were no substantial changes to the Director’s 
remuneration policy during the year 2023. 
(c)	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee 
Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF)
In accordance with the Trust Deed of the Funds, the 
Board of Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints the 
trustees of the Fund subject to approval by the CMA. 
The number of trustees is set at a minimum of Three 
(3).  Any person, whether or not domiciled, resident or 
carrying on business or in the case of a body corporate 
carrying on business in Kenya may be appointed and 
hold office as a trustee.
There were no substantial changes to the trustees’ 
remuneration policy during the year 2023.
Contract of service
(a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
In accordance with Article 93 of the Articles  of 
Association of the Company, unless and until otherwise 
from time to time determined by an ordinary resolution 
of the Company, but always subject to the provisions 
of the Kenyan Companies Act (the Act) and the Capital 
Markets Act (CMA) regulations, the number of Directors 
(including the Chief Executive Officer and excluding 
alternates) shall not be less than Seven (7) and not 
more than Eleven (11) in number and shall be elected 
in accordance with the Act, the Capital Markets Act 
and the Company’s Articles of Association.
Two Directors are elected by the members from among 
or to represent the trading participants and a further 
two Directors are elected by the members from among 
nominees of companies listed on the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange to represent the said listed companies. 
Any other directors are elected by the members in 
accordance with the Companies Act provided that at 
all times at least one third of the Directors must be 
non-executive Directors.
If at any time the number of Directors falls below 
the minimum number fixed by or in accordance with 
the Company’s Articles of Association, the remaining 
Directors may act for the purpose of convening 
a general meeting or for the purpose of bringing 
the number of Directors to such minimum, and for 
no other purpose.
The Non-Executive Directors are not under contract 
but are subject to retirement by rotation at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). CMA regulations provide for 
fixed terms of office for the company’s Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer, which shall include a maximum 
66
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
term of office of two consecutive years for the 
Chairman and four years renewable once for the Chief 
Executive Officer. The Chairman’s term of office was 
extended for two years with effect from 13 July 2023.
The Chief Executive Officer’s contract within the 
period under review is for the second term for a Four 
(4) year’s period running from 1 March 2021. Under 
the terms of the contract, either party may, not less 
than six months to the expiry of this contract, notify 
the other of their intention not to extend the contract, 
otherwise the contract shall be automatically renewed 
for a further final period of four years. Either Party may 
also terminate the Agreement without assigning any 
reasons, at any time, by giving to the other not less 
than six months’ notice in writing, or six months’ salary 
in lieu of notice, at the end of which the Agreement 
shall determine. The Chief Executive Officer’s contract 
was renewed for one more year from 2 March 2023.
(b)	 NSE Clear Limited
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association (the Articles), the directors have power at 
any time, and from time to time, to appoint any person 
to be a director, either to fill a casual vacancy, or as 
an addition to the existing directors, but so that the 
total number of directors shall not at any time exceed 
the number fixed in accordance with the Articles. 
Any director so appointed shall hold office until he 
is removed or his office is vacated, in each case in 
accordance with these Articles.
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or 
more of their body to the office of Managing Director, 
or to any other executive office under the Company, 
for such period and on such terms as they think fit, and, 
subject to the terms of any agreement entered into in 
any particular case, may revoke such appointment. 
The appointment of such Managing Director or other 
executive officer shall be automatically determined if 
he ceases from any cause to be a director.
Other than the Managing Director, the Directors are 
subject to retirement by rotation at every Annual 
General Meeting (AGM).
(c)	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee 
Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF)
The Trustees are not under contract. The office of a 
trustee becomes vacant if: the trustee resigns with a 
one month’s notice; becomes mentally or physically 
incapacitated; or by removal by the Board of NSE Clear 
Limited by a resolution.  A trustee can also retire at any 
time by giving three (3) months written notice to the 
Board. In the event of the number of trustees falling 
below three, the Board shall, subject to the approval 
of the CMA, appoint such additional trustees as shall 
be necessary to make their number up to three, save 
where there is appointed a sole corporate trustee.
Statement of voting on the Directors’ 
remuneration report at the Previous Annual 
General Meeting
(a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC
During the Annual General Meeting held on 30th May 
2023, the shareholders approved the fees paid to the 
Directors fees for the year ended 31st December 2022 
by show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29th May 
2024, approval will be sought from shareholders for 
the fees paid to the Directors for the financial year 
ended 31st December 2023.
(b)	 NSE Clear Limited 
During the Annual General Meeting held on 10th May 
2023, the shareholders approved the fees paid to the 
Directors for the year ended 31st December 2022 
by show of hands.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8th May 
2024, approval will be sought from shareholders for 
the fees paid to the Directors for the financial year 
ended 31st December 2023.
(c)	 The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee 
Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF)
The Funds do not hold annual general meetings. 
The fees for the Trustees are approved by the NSE 
Clear Limited Board.
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT (CONTINUED)
Contract of service (Continued)
(a)	 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (Continued)
67
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT 
The following table shows a single figure remuneration for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and Executive Director 
in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31st December 2023 together with the comparative figures for 2022. 
Year ended 31 December 2023
Name
Category
Fees
Sitting 
allowances
Gross pay 
+ other 
allowances
Provident 
scheme 
contribution
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Non-Executive
1,200,000
565,714
-
-
1,765,714
Paul Mwai
Non-Executive
960,000
1,028,571
-
-
1,988,571
Isis Nyongo
Non-Executive
720,000
1,085,714
-
-
1,805,714
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
720,000
1,100,000
-
-
1,820,000
Risper Alaro*
Non-Executive
720,000
914,286
-
-
1,634,286
Donald Wangunyu
Non-Executive
720,000
1,128,571
-
-
1,848,571
Stephen Chege
Non-Executive
720,000
1,028,571
-
-
1,748,571
John Niepold
Non-Executive
720,000
1,085,715
-
-
1,805,715
Carole Kariuki
Non-Executive
720,000
1,035,715
-
-
1,755,715
Geoffrey Odundo
Executive
-
-
 28,943,300 
 2,805,649 
31,748,949
7,200,000
8,972,857
 28,943,300 
 2,805,649 
47,921,806
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2023 is amounts relating to fees earned for services 
rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below:
Sitting Allowances
NSE Clear
IPF
SGF
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Risper Alaro
85,714
85,714
85,714
257,143
85,714
85,714
85,714
257,143
Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit).
68
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
Year ended 31 December 2022
Name
Category
Fees
Sitting 
allowances
Gross pay 
+ other 
allowances
Provident 
scheme 
contribution
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kiprono Kittony
Non-Executive
1,200,000
660,000
-
-
1,860,000
Paul Mwai*
Non-Executive
960,000
1,450,000
-
-
2,410,000
Isis Nyongo
Non-Executive
720,000
1,335,714
-
-
2,055,714
Michael Turner
Non-Executive
720,000
1,085,714
-
-
1,805,714
Risper Alaro
Non-Executive
720,000
1,128,571
-
-
1,848,571
Paul Vollant
Non-Executive
360,000
571,429
-
-
931,429
Donald Wangunyu
Non-Executive
720,000
957,143
-
-
1,677,143
Stephen Chege
Non-Executive
720,000
821,429
-
-
1,541,429
John Niepold
Non-Executive
360,000
521,429
-
-
881,429
Carole Kariuki
Non-Executive
360,000
442,857
-
-
802,857
Geoffrey Odundo
Executive
-
-
28,913,130
2,561,435
31,474,565
6,840,000
8,974,286
28,913,130
2,561,435
47,288,851
*Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2022 is amounts relating to fees earned for services 
rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below:
Sitting Allowances
NSE Clear
IPF
SGF
Total
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Kshs
Paul Mwai
85,714
85,714
85,714
257,143
85,714
85,714
85,714
257,143
Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit).
Mr. Kuria Waithaka 
Company Secretary
28th March 2024
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT (CONTINUED)
69
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

STATEMENT OF 
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a 
true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and of its profit or 
loss for that year. The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and Group keep proper accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Company and Group; disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Company and Group; and that enables them to prepare financial statements of the 
Company and Group that comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the requirements of the Kenyan 
Companies Act, 2015. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.     
The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act 2015. They also 
accept responsibility for: 
(i)	 Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of 
financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error;
(ii)	 Selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and
(iii)	 Making judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. 
Having made an assessment of the Company’s and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, the directors are not aware 
of any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast doubt upon the Company’s and Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility.
Approved by the Board of Directors on  28th March 2024 and signed on its behalf by:
________________________________
________________________________
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Chairman
Mr. John Niepold
Director
70
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE NAIROBI 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
Report on the audit of the consolidated and separate  
financial statements
Opinion 
We have audited the consolidated and separate financial 
statements of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (the Group 
and Company) set out on pages 74 to 139, which comprise 
the consolidated and separate statements of financial 
position as at 31 December 2023, and the consolidated 
and separate statements of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income, the consolidated and separate 
statements of changes in equity and the consolidated 
and separate statements of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and notes to the consolidated and separate 
financial 
statements, 
including 
material 
accounting 
policy information.  
In our opinion, the consolidated and separate financial 
statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated 
and separate financial position of the Nairobi Securities 
Exchange Plc as at 31 December 2023 and of its consolidated 
and separate financial performance and consolidated and 
separate cash flows for the year then ended in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards and the 
requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and 
company financial statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the Group and the Company in 
accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for 
Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants 
(IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the consolidated and company 
financial statements in Kenya, and we have fulfilled 
our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the IESBA Code.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of 
the financial statements of the current period. We have 
determined that there are no key audit matters to report.
Other information
The directors are responsible for the other information. The 
other information comprises the corporate information, 
Directors’ 
report, 
corporate 
governance 
statement, 
statement of Directors’ responsibilities and Directors’ 
remuneration report which we obtained prior to the date 
of this auditor’s report and the rest of the other information 
in the Annual Report, which are expected to be made 
available to us after that date but does not include the 
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our 
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the 
other information and we do not and will not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information identified 
above and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed  on the 
other  information we have received prior to the date of 
this auditor’s report we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required to 
report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the consolidated 
and company financial statements
The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair 
presentation of the consolidated and separate financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards and in the manner required by 
the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 and for such internal 
control as the directors determine is necessary to enable 
the preparation of consolidated and separate financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the consolidated and separate financial 
statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the 
Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going 

concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or 
the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic 
alternative but to do so. 
The Directors are responsible for overseeing the Group’s 
financial reporting process.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the 
consolidated and company financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise 
professional 
judgement 
and 
maintain 
professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	» Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk 
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud 
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
	» Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose 
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
Group’s or Company’s internal control.
	» Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the directors. 
	» Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of 
the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the Group’s and Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of 
our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions 
may cause the Group or Company to cease to continue as 
a going concern. 
	» Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the financial statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
	» Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the 
Group’s financial statements. We are responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the Group 
audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the 
audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that 
we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them 
all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be 
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with the directors, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in 
the audit of the financial statements of the current period 
and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in 
extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF  
THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC (CONTINUED)
Report on the audit of the consolidated and separate  
financial statements (Continued)
Responsibilities of the Directors for the consolidated 
 and company financial statements (Continued)

Report on other matters prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 
Report of the Directors
In our opinion, the information given in the directors’ report on page 38 to 39 is consistent with the financial statements.
Directors’ remuneration report
In our opinion, the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 68 to 69 has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015.
The engagement partner responsible for the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is CPA Freda Mitambo, 
Practising certificate No. 2174.
For and on behalf of Deloitte & Touche LLP 
Certified Public Accountants (Kenya) 
Nairobi 
28th March 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF  
THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC (CONTINUED)

STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Group
Company
Notes
2023
2022
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Transaction levy - equity
6
211,094
225,838
211,094
225,838
Transaction levy - bond
6
64,395
79,380
64,395
79,380
Data vending income
6
116,569
93,548
116,569
93,548
Annual, initial and additional listing fees
6
69,838
71,175
68,338
71,175
Interest income computed on effective interest rate
9
120,950
104,376
101,562
90,300
Broker back-office subscription
6
27,944
29,656
27,944
29,656
Unquoted securities platform fees
6
2,439
6,463
-
-
Dividend from equity investment
8,013
6,047
8,013
6,047
Market access fees
6
-
694
-
694
Other income
10
41,079
25,587
66,686
32,470
Share of surplus - NSE LLP
17
-
-
1,716
7,154
Total income
662,321
642,764
666,317
636,262
Staff costs 
8(a)
176,452
177,359
176,452
177,359
System maintenance costs
61,847
56,001
61,847
56,001
Depreciation and amortization
12,14
37,720
48,512
37,513
48,511
Building and office costs
41,914
43,193
38,615
41,473
Directors’ emoluments
33(a)
47,922
47,289
47,665
47,032
Revaluation loss on property
27,500
17,222
27,500
17,222
Other expenses
8(b)
202,683
161,413
195,664
153,447
Total expenses
596,038
550,989
585,256
541,045
Profit before ECL and fair value movements
66,283
91,775
81,061
95,217
Provision for expected credit losses (ECL)
36(b)(iii)
5,145
(62)
4,334
(929)
Unrealised loss on bond mark to market valuation
(9,673)
(7,370)
(9,673)
(7,370)
Share of loss of associate
15(b)
(19,429)
(46,544)
(10,794)
(25,806)
Profit before income tax
7
42,326
37,799
64,928
61,112
Tax expense
11(a)
(23,922)
(24,075)
(20,482)
(21,791)
Profit after tax for the year
18,404
13,724
44,446
39,321
74
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Group
Company
Notes
2023
2022
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Profit after tax for the year
18,404
13,724
44,446
39,321
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Fair value gain on equity instruments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income 
18
26,292
31,496
26,292
31,496
Fair value adjustment from associate on investment in 
Government securities
15(b)
(2,695)
 (1,933)
(1,497)
 (1,074) 
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or 
loss
23,597
29,563
24,795
30,422
Total comprehensive income for the year
42,001
43,287
69,241
69,743
Profit for the year attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders of the parent 
32
18,403
13,876
44,446
39,321
Non-controlling interest
16(d)
1
(152)
-
-
18,404
13,724
44,446
39,321
Total comprehensive income for the year 
attributable to:
Ordinary equity holders of the parent 
42,000
43,439
69,241
69,743
Non-controlling interest
16(d)
1
(152)
-
-
42,001
43,287
69,241
69,743
Sh
Sh
Sh
Sh
Earnings per share - Basic and diluted
32
0.07
0.05
0.17
0.15
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
75
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION  
AT 31 DECEMBER 2023
Notes
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property and equipment
12
116,176
141,837
Investment property
13
288,481
305,791
Intangible assets
14
108,048
108,360
Investment in associate 
15 (b)
166,151
188,275
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – Quoted equity 
instruments
18
133,121
106,829
Long-term restricted investments
19
143,382
145,314
Government securities at amortised cost
20 (a)
201,973
202,615
Deferred income tax
21
10,247
10,438
1,167,579
1,209,459
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
22 (a)
113,770
91,489
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss - Government securities
20 (b)
241,324
256,375
Tax recoverable
11 (c)
98,309
94,135
Fixed deposits
23
-
6,964
Short-term restricted cash and investment
23
317,171
296,470
Cash and cash equivalents
23
89,911
78,797
860,485
824,230
TOTAL ASSETS
2,028,064
2,033,689
76
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Notes
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
25
1,041,810
1,041,567
Share premium
26
279,489
279,459
Revaluation reserve
60,221
33,929
Other reserves
(4,628)
(1,933)
Retained earnings
492,979
526,654
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent
1,869,871
1,879,676
Non-controlling interest
16(d)
6,860
17,366
Total equity
1,876,731
1,897,042
Non-current liabilities
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
28
11,750
11,750
Tenant deposits
29(a)
2,215
2,215
13,965
13,965
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
29(b)
74,947
63,573
Dividends payable
30
60,221
57,109
Trading members’ contributions
2,200
2,000
137,368
122,682
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES
2,028,064
2,033,689
The financial statements on pages 74 to 139 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 28th March 
2024 and were signed on its behalf by:
________________________________
________________________________
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Chairman
Mr. John Niepold
Director
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION  
AT 31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
77
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION  
AT 31 DECEMBER 2023
Notes
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property and equipment
12
115,393
141,836
Investment property
13
288,481
305,791
Intangible assets
14
108,048
108,360
Investment in associate 
15 (b)
73,448
85,739
Investment in subsidiaries and structured entities
16
248,899
241,899
Investment in NSE LLP
17
7,442
5,842
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income – Quoted equity 
instrument
18
133,121
106,829
Government securities at amortised cost
 20 (a)
201,973
202,615
Deferred income tax
 21
10,246
10,433
1,187,051
1,209,344
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
22 (a)
113,012
89,931
Due from related party
33 (f)(i)
30,267
12,913
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss - Government securities
20 (b)
241,324
256,375
Tax recoverable
11 (c)
90,753
87,888
Short-term restricted cash and investments
23
317,171
296,470
Cash and cash equivalents
23
59,759
57,091
852,286
800,668
TOTAL ASSETS
2,039,337
2,010,012
78
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

Notes
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital
25
1,041,810
1,041,567
Share premium
26
279,489
279,459
Revaluation reserve
60,221
33,929
Other reserves
(2,571)
(1,074)
Retained earnings
533,153
540,785
Shareholders’ funds
1,912,102
1,894,666
Non-current liabilities
Tenant deposits
29 (a)
 2,215
2,215
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
29 (b)
65,617
55,947
Dividends payable
30
59,237
57,109
Due to NSE LLP
33 (f)(i)
166
75
125,020
 113,131
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES
2,039,337
2,010,012
The financial statements on pages 74 to 139 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 28th March 
2024 and were signed on its behalf by:
________________________________
________________________________
Mr. Kiprono Kittony, EBS
Chairman
Mr. John Niepold
Director
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION  
AT 31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
79
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Share 
 capital
Share 
premium
Other 
reserves
Revaluation 
reserves
Retained 
earnings
Due to 
owners of 
the parent
Non-
controlling
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Year ended 31 December 2022
At start of year
1,040,017
278,579
536
2,433
746,246
2,067,811
17,518
2,085,329
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
13,876
13,876
(152)
13,724
Other comprehensive income for the year 
-
-
(2,469)
31,496
536
 29,563
-
29,563
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(2,469)
31,496
14,412
43,439
(152)
43,287
2021 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(130,002)
(130,002)
-
(130,002)
2022 first special dividend declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(104,002)
(104,002)
-
(104,002)
Issue of shares to employees share ownership plan 
(note 27)
1,550
880
-
-
-
2,430
-
2,430
At end of year
1,041,567
279,459
(1,933)
33,929
526,654
1,879,676
17,366
1,897,042
Year ended 31 December 2023
At start of year
1,041,567
279,459
(1,933)
33,929
526,654
1,879,676
17,366
1,897,042
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
18,403
18,403
1
18,404
Other comprehensive income for the year 
-
-
(2,695)
26,292
-
 23,597
-
23,597
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(2,695)
26,292
18,403
42,000
1
42,001
2022 dividend declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(52,078)
(52,078)
-
(52,078)
Reduction in NCI on increase in shareholding in AKS 
Nominees Limited (note 16(d))
-
-
-
-
-
-
(9,523)
(9,523)
Issue of shares to employees share ownership plan 
(note 27)
243
30
-
-
-
273
-
273
2023 dividend declared by AKS Nominees Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
(984)
(984)
At end of year
1,041,810
279,489
(4,628)
60,221
492,979
1,869,871
6,860
1,876,731
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation of equity instruments through other comprehensive income. 
Other reserves relate to the Company’s share of the fair value adjustments of the associate through other comprehensive income. 
80
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Share 
capital
Share 
premium
Other 
reserves
Revaluation 
reserves
Retained 
earnings
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
 Sh’000
Year ended 31 December 2022
At start of year
1,040,017
278,579
3
2,433
735,465
2,056,497
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
39,321
39,321
Other comprehensive income for the year 
-
-
(1,077)
31,496
3
30,422
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(1,077)
31,496
39,324
69,743
2021 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
(130,002)
(130,002)
2022 first special dividend declared in the year
-
-
-
-
(104,002)
(104,002)
Issue of shares to employee share ownership plan (note 27)
1,550
880
-
-
-
2,430
At end of year
1,041,567
279,459
(1,074)
33,929
540,785
1,894,666
Year ended 31 December 2023
At start of year
1,041,567
279,459
(1,074)
33,929
540,785
1,894,666
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
44,446
44,446
Other comprehensive income for the year 
-
-
(1,497)
26,292
-
24,795
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(1,497)
26,292
44,446
69,241
2022 dividend declared in the year 
-
-
-
-
 (52,078)
(52,078)
Issue of shares to employee share ownership plan (note 27)
243
30
-
-
-
273
At end of year
1,041,810
279,489
(2,571)
60,221
533,153
1,912,102
The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation of equity instruments through other comprehensive income. 
Other reserves relate to the Company’s share of the fair value adjustments of the associate through other comprehensive income.
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
81
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Group
Company
Notes
2023
2022
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before income tax
42,326
37,799
64,928
61,112
Adjustments for non-cash items 
31
(38,504)
12,112
(29,672)
(557)
Working capital changes
31
(17,369)
13,482
(34,774)
13,575
Cash (used in)/generated from operations
31
(13,547)
63,393
482
74,130
Tax paid
11(c)
(27,905)
(97,362)
(23,044)
(94,583)
Net cash used in operating activities
(41,452)
(33,969)
(22,562)
(20,453)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property and equipment
12
(2,076)
(7,564)
(1,087)
(7,564)
Purchase of intangible assets 
14
(19,861)
(5,201)
(19,861)
(5,201)
Interest received
112,003
104,376
90,705
90,300
Proceeds on disposal of equipment
6
1,098
6
1,098
Investment in treasury bonds
21,166
(93,392)
21,166
(93,392)
Investment in fixed deposits
51,689
(86,791)
44,722
(95,660)
Investment in long term restricted investments
(439)
1,160
-
-
Investment in AKS Nominees Limited
(7,000)
-
(7,000)
-
Cash generated from/(used in) investing activities
155,488
(86,314)
128,651
(110,419)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid
30
(49,950)
(243,965)
(49,950)
(243,339)
Cash used in financing activities
(49,950)
(243,965)
(49,950)
(243,339)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
64,086
(364,248)
56,139
 (374,211)
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of year
250,234
613,095
228,688
601,512
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes
4,486
1,387
4,486
1,387
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year
23
318,806
250,234
289,313
228,688
82
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 
31 DECEMBER 2023
1	
REPORTING ENTITY
The 
Nairobi 
Securities 
Exchange 
Plc 
(NSE/the 
“Company”/the “Exchange”), formerly known as the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited, was incorporated 
in Kenya under the Companies Act and is domiciled 
in Kenya. The NSE is licensed as an exchange by the 
Capital Markets Authority (CMA) of Kenya and obtained 
a license on 19 October 2015 to operate a derivatives 
exchange. The NSE currently has the primary market 
services as a main line of business. The consolidated 
financial statements of the Group at and for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 comprise the Company 
and subsidiaries and controlled structured entities 
(collectively referred to as the “Group”) and reflect the 
Company’s interest in an associate company.
2	
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR 
FINANCIAL POSITION
The material accounting policies applied in the 
preparation of these consolidated and separate 
financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all years presented, 
unless otherwise stated.
a.	
Statement of compliance 
The consolidated and separate financial statements 
have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The measurement 
basis applied is the historical cost basis, except where 
otherwise stated in the accounting policies below. 
The consolidated and separate financial statements 
are presented in Kenya Shillings (Sh), rounded to the 
nearest thousand.
The preparation of the consolidated and separate 
financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires 
the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires the Directors to exercise judgement in the 
process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. 
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or 
complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are 
significant to the consolidated and separate financial 
statements, are disclosed in Note 4.
b.	
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements comprise a profit and 
loss account (statement of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income), balance sheet (statement 
of financial position), statement of changes in 
equity, statement of cash flows, and notes. Income 
and expenses, excluding the components of other 
comprehensive income (OCI), are recognised in 
the profit or loss. Other comprehensive income is 
recognised in other comprehensive income and 
comprises items of income and expense (including 
reclassification adjustments) that are not recognised 
in the profit or loss as required or permitted by IFRS. 
Reclassification adjustments are amounts reclassified 
to the profit or loss in the current period that were 
recognised in other comprehensive income in the 
current or previous periods. Transactions with the 
owners of the Company in their capacity as owners are 
recognised in the statement of changes in equity
i.	
Basis of measurement 
The measurement basis used is the historical cost 
basis except where otherwise stated in the accounting 
policies below.
Under the historical cost basis, assets are recorded at 
the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair 
value of the consideration given to acquire them at 
the time of their acquisition. Liabilities are recorded at 
the amount of proceeds received in exchange for the 
obligation or, in some cases, at the amounts of cash 
or cash equivalents expected to be paid to satisfy the 
liability in the normal course of business.
For those assets and liabilities measured at fair value, 
fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. When measuring the fair value of 
an asset or a liability, the Group uses market observable 
data as far as possible. 
If the fair value of an asset or a liability is not directly 
observable, it is estimated by the Group using 
valuation techniques that maximise the use of relevant 
observable inputs and minimise the use of unobservable 
inputs (e.g. by use of the market comparable approach 
that reflects recent transaction prices for similar items 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
83
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
or discounted cash flow analysis). Inputs used are 
consistent with the characteristics of the asset/liability 
that market participants would take into account.
ii.	
Use of estimates and judgment 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity 
with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates. It also requires the directors to exercise their 
judgment in the process of applying the Group’s and 
Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving 
a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas 
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.
c.	
Adoption of new and revised International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
(i)	
Relevant new standards and amendments to 
published standards effective for the year 
ended 31 December 2023
Several new and revised standards and interpretations 
became effective during the year. The Directors 
have evaluated the impact of the new standards 
and interpretations and none of them had a material 
impact on the Group’s financial statements.
The following revised IFRSs were effective in the 
current year and the nature and the impact of the 
relevant amendments are described below:
	
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial 
Statements and IFRS Practice Statement 2 
Making Materiality Judgements - Disclosure of 
Accounting Policies
The amendments change the requirements in IAS 
1 with regard to disclosure of accounting policies. 
The amendments replace all instances of the term 
‘significant 
accounting 
policies’ 
with 
‘material 
accounting policy information’. Accounting policy 
information is material if, when considered together 
with other information included in an entity’s financial 
statements, it can reasonably be expected to influence 
decisions that the primary users of general purpose 
financial statements make on the basis of those 
financial statements.
The supporting paragraphs in IAS 1 are also amended to 
clarify that accounting policy information that relates 
to immaterial transactions, other events or conditions 
is immaterial and need not be disclosed. Accounting 
policy information may be material because of the 
nature of the related transactions, other events or 
conditions, even if the amounts are immaterial. 
However, not all accounting policy information relating 
to material transactions, other events or conditions is 
itself material.
	
Amendments to IAS 12 - Deferred Tax related 
to Assets and Liabilities arising from a 
Single Transaction
The amendments introduce a further exception 
from the initial recognition exemption. Under the 
amendments, an entity does not apply the initial 
recognition exemption for transactions that give rise 
to equal taxable and deductible temporary differences.
Depending on the applicable tax law, equal taxable and 
deductible temporary differences may arise on initial 
recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and affects neither 
accounting nor taxable profit. For example, this may 
arise upon recognition of a lease liability and the 
corresponding right-of-use asset applying IFRS 16 at 
the commencement date of a lease.
Following the amendments to IAS 12, an entity is 
required to recognise the related deferred tax asset and 
liability, with the recognition of any deferred tax asset 
being subject to the recoverability criteria in IAS 12.
The amendments apply to transactions that occur 
on or after the beginning of the earliest comparative 
period presented. In addition, at the beginning of the 
earliest comparative period an entity recognises:
	» A deferred tax asset (to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary difference can be utilised) and 
a deferred tax liability for all deductible and taxable 
temporary differences associated with:
	– Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
	– Decommissioning, 
restoration 
and 
similar 
liabilities 
and 
the 
corresponding 
amounts 
recognised as part of the cost of the related asset
	» The cumulative effect of initially applying the 
amendments as an adjustment to the opening 
balance of retained earnings (or other component of 
equity, as appropriate) at that date. 
2	
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR 
FINANCIAL POSITION (CONTINUED)
b.	
Basis of preparation (Continued)
i.	
Basis of measurement (Continued)
84
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
	
Amendments to IAS 8 - Definition of Accounting Estimates
The amendments replace the definition of a change in accounting estimates with a definition of accounting estimates. 
Under the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to 
measurement uncertainty”.
The definition of a change in accounting estimates was deleted. However, the Board retained the concept of changes 
in accounting estimates in the Standard with the following clarifications:
	» A change in accounting estimate that results from new information or new developments is not the correction of an error.
	» The effects of a change in an input or a measurement technique used to develop an accounting estimate are changes 
in accounting estimates if they do not result from the correction of prior period errors.
(ii)	 Impact of new and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective
At the date of authorization of these financial statements, the Group has not yet applied the following new and revised 
IFRS Standards that have been issued but are not yet effective. The Directors do not expect any material impact on the 
Group’s financial statements.
New and Amendments to standards
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or contribution of 
assets between Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
Yet to be set, with earlier application permitted
Amendment to IFRS 16 - Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024 with 
earlier application permitted
Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7 - Supplier Finance 
Arrangements
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024 with 
earlier adoption permitted
Amendments to IAS 1 - Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024
IFRS S1 - General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-
related Financial Information
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024
IFRS S2 - Climate-related Disclosures
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024
Amendments to IAS 1 - Classification of liabilities as current or 
non-current
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024
Amendments to IAS 21 - Lack of exchangeability
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025
2	
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR FINANCIAL 
POSITION (CONTINUED)
c.	
Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) (Continued)
(i)	
Relevant new standards and amendments to published standards effective for the year ended 
31 December 2023  (Continued)
85
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
	
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or 
Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its 
Associate or Joint Venture
The amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 deal with 
situations where there is a sale or contribution of assets 
between an investor and its associate or joint venture. 
Specifically, the amendments state that gains or losses 
resulting from the loss of control of a subsidiary that 
does not contain a business in a transaction with an 
associate or a joint venture that is accounted for using 
the equity method, are recognised in the parent’s profit 
or loss only to the extent of the unrelated investors’ 
interests in that associate or joint venture. Similarly, 
gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of 
investments retained in any former subsidiary (that 
has become an associate or a joint venture that is 
accounted for using the equity method) to fair value 
are recognised in the former parent’s profit or loss only 
to the extent of the unrelated investors’ interests in the 
new associate or joint venture.
The effective date of the amendments is yet to be 
set by the Board; however, earlier application of the 
amendments is permitted. The directors of the Group 
anticipate that the application of these amendments 
may have an impact on the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements in future periods should such 
transactions arise.
	
Amendment to IFRS 16 - Lease Liability in a 
Sale and Leaseback
The amendments add subsequent measurement 
requirements for sale and leaseback transactions that 
satisfy the requirements in IFRS 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers to be accounted for as a 
sale. The amendments require the seller-lessee to 
determine ‘lease payments’ or ‘revised lease payments’ 
such that the seller-lessee does not recognise a gain 
or loss that relates to the right of use retained by 
the seller-lessee, after the commencement date. The 
amendments do not affect the gain or loss recognised 
by the seller-lessee relating to the partial or full 
termination of a lease.
Without these new requirements, a seller-lessee may 
have recognised a gain on the right of use it retains 
solely because of a remeasurement of the lease 
liability (for example, following a lease modification 
or change in the lease term) applying the general 
requirements in IFRS 16. 
This could have been particularly the case in a 
leaseback that includes variable lease payments that 
do not depend on an index or rate. 
	
Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7 - Supplier 
Finance Arrangements
The amendments add a disclosure objective to IAS 7 
stating that an entity is required to disclose information 
about its supplier finance arrangements that enables 
users of financial statements to assess the effects of 
those arrangements on the entity’s liabilities and cash 
flows and the entity’s exposure to liquidity risk. 
Supplier finance arrangements are characterised by 
one or more finance providers offering to pay amounts 
an entity owes its suppliers and the entity agreeing 
to pay according to the terms and conditions of the 
arrangements at the same date as, or a date later than, 
suppliers are paid. 
These arrangements provide the entity with extended 
payment terms, or the entity’s suppliers with early 
payment terms, compared to the related invoice 
payment due date. Supplier finance arrangements are 
often referred to as supply chain finance, payables 
finance or reverse factoring arrangements. 
Arrangements that are solely credit enhancements for 
the entity (for example, financial guarantees including 
letters of credit used as guarantees) or instruments 
used to settle directly with a supplier the amounts 
owed (for example, credit cards) are not supplier 
finance arrangements. 
The amendments include as an additional factor 
whether the entity has accessed, or has access to, 
supplier finance arrangements that provide the 
entity with extended payment terms or the entity’s 
suppliers with early payment terms. The amendments 
add that concentrations of liquidity risk and market 
risk may arise from supplier finance arrangements 
resulting in the entity concentrating with finance 
providers a portion of its financial liabilities originally 
owed to suppliers.
2	
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR 
FINANCIAL POSITION (CONTINUED)
c.	 Adoption of new and revised International 
Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) (Continued)
(ii)	 Impact of new and amended standards and 
interpretations in issue but not yet  
effective (Continued)
86
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
The Group did not have any business transactions for 
which supplier finance arrangements would materially 
impact these financial statements. 
	
Amendments to IAS 1 - Non-current 
Liabilities with Covenants
The IASB amends IAS 1 to specify that only covenants 
an entity must comply with on or before the reporting 
period should affect classification of the corresponding 
liability as current or non-current.
An entity is required to disclose information in the notes 
that enables users of financial statements to understand 
the risk that non-current liabilities with covenants 
could become repayable within twelve months.
The amendments are applied retrospectively (applying 
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors) and are effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024. 
Earlier application is permitted.
	
IFRS S1 - General Requirements for Disclosure of 
Sustainability - related Financial Information
IFRS S1 sets out overall requirements for sustainability-
related financial disclosures with the objective to 
require an entity to disclose information about its 
sustainability-related risks and opportunities that is 
useful to primary users of general purpose financial 
reports in making decisions relating to providing 
resources to the entity.
IFRS S1 requires an entity to disclose information 
about all sustainability-related risks and opportunities 
that could reasonably be expected to affect the entity’s 
cash flows, its access to finance or cost of capital over 
the short, medium or long term. The standard refers 
to these risks and opportunities as ‘sustainability-
related risks and opportunities that could reasonably 
be expected to affect the entity’s prospects’.
An entity whose sustainability-related financial 
disclosures comply with all the requirements of IFRS 
Sustainability Disclosure Standards is required to make 
an explicit and unreserved statement of compliance. 
An entity is not permitted to describe sustainability-
related financial disclosures as complying with IFRS 
Sustainability 
Disclosure 
Standards 
unless 
they 
comply with all the requirements of IFRS Sustainability 
Disclosure Standards; that is:
a.	Conceptual foundation - the usefulness of related 
financial information is enhanced if the information 
is comparable, verifiable, timely and understandable;
b.	Fair presentation - requires disclosure of relevant 
information about sustainability related risks and 
opportunities that could reasonably be expected 
to affect the entity’s prospects, and their faithful 
representation in accordance with the principles set 
out in IFRS S1. To achieve this an entity is required 
to provide a complete, neutral, and accurate 
depiction of those sustainability-related risks 
and opportunities;
c.	 Materiality - information is material if omitting, 
misstating or obscuring that information could 
reasonably be expected to influence decisions that 
primary users of general purpose financial reports 
make on the basis of those reports, which include 
financial statements and sustainability-related 
financial disclosures and which provide information 
about a specific reporting entity;
d.	Reporting entity and connected information - an 
entity is required to provide information in a manner 
that enables users of general purpose financial 
reports to understand:
	» The connections between the items to which 
the information relates - such as connections 
between various sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities that could reasonably be expected 
to affect the entity’s prospects;
	» The connections between disclosures provided 
by the entity-within its sustainability related 
financial 
disclosures 
such 
as 
connections 
between disclosures on governance, strategy, risk 
management, and metrics and targets or: across 
its sustainability-related financial disclosures 
and other general purpose financial reports 
published by the entity such as its related financial 
statements; and
	» An entity is required to identify the financial 
statements to which the sustainability-related 
financial disclosures relate.
2	
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR 
FINANCIAL POSITION (CONTINUED)
c.	 Adoption of new and revised International 
Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) (Continued)
(ii)	 Impact of new and amended standards and 
interpretations in issue but not yet  
effective (Continued)
Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7 - Supplier Finance 
Arrangements (Continued)
87
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
e.	Core content - an entity is required to make 
disclosures about:
	» Governance - the governance processes, controls 
and procedures the entity uses to monitor 
and manage sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities; 
	» Strategy - the approach the entity uses to 
manage 
sustainability-related 
risks 
and 
opportunities, including:
	– Business model and value chain 
	– Strategy and decision making 
	– Financial position, financial 
performance and cash flows
	– Resilience of the entity’s strategy and its 
business model 
	» Risk management - the processes the entity 
uses to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor 
sustainability-related risks and opportunities.
	» Metrics and targets - the entity’s performance 
in relation to sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities, including progress towards any 
targets the entity has set, or is required to meet by 
law or regulation. 
	
IFRS S2 - Climate-related Disclosures
IFRS S2 sets out the requirements for identifying, 
measuring and disclosing information about climate-
related risks and opportunities that is useful to primary 
users of general purpose financial reports in making 
decisions relating to providing resources to the entity.
	
Amendments to IAS 1 - Classification of liabilities 
as current or non-current
The amendment was to clarify the classification 
criteria for liabilities as current or non-current. The 
most significant changes are listed below.
i.	 A clarification has been added to both IAS 1:69 and 
73 to emphasise that for a liability to be classified 
as non-current, the entity’s right to defer settlement 
must exist ‘at the end of the reporting period’. This 
was previously illustrated in the examples but not 
explicitly stated. 
ii.	 The IASB specifies that for a liability to be non-current 
an assessment is required of whether an entity has 
the right to defer settlement of a liability and not 
whether the entity will exercise that right. The 
reference to an entity’s expectations in IAS 1:73 has 
been deleted and a new paragraph has been added 
to state explicitly that classification is unaffected 
by management intentions or expectations. 
iii.	 The word ‘unconditional’ has been removed from 
IAS 1:69 and a new paragraph has been added 
to clarify that if the right to defer settlement is 
conditional on the compliance with covenants the 
right exists if the conditions are met at the end of 
the reporting period, even if the lender does not 
test compliance until a later date.
iv.	 A definition of the word ‘settlement’ has been 
added that states “For the purpose of classifying a 
liability as current or noncurrent, settlement refers 
to a transfer to the counterparty that results in the 
extinguishment of the liability.” This transfer could 
be of cash, goods and services or the entity’s own 
equity instruments. 
v.	 The IASB also clarifies the scope of when 
counterparty 
conversion 
options 
affect 
classification as current or non-current. Applying 
the amendment, if a liability has terms that 
could, at the option of the counterparty, result 
in its settlement by the transfer of the entity’s 
own equity instruments, these terms do not 
affect its classification as current or non-current 
if the entity recognises the option separately as 
an equity instrument applying IAS 32 Financial 
Instruments: Presentation.
2	
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR 
FINANCIAL POSITION (CONTINUED)
c.	 Adoption of new and revised International 
Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) (Continued)
(ii)	 Impact of new and amended standards and 
interpretations in issue but not yet  
effective (Continued)
	
IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure 
of Sustainability - related Financial 
Information (Continued)
88
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
	
Amendments to IAS 21 - Lack of exchangeability
The IASB has published amendments to IAS 21 
that specify how to assess whether a currency is 
exchangeable and how to determine the exchange rate 
when it is not.
Applying the amendments, a currency is exchangeable 
when an entity is able to exchange that currency 
for the other currency through market or exchange 
mechanisms that create enforceable rights and 
obligations without undue delay at the measurement 
date and for a specified purpose. However, a currency 
is not exchangeable into the other currency if an entity 
can only obtain no more than an insignificant amount 
of the other currency at the measurement date for the 
specified purpose. 
When a currency is not exchangeable at the 
measurement date, an entity is required to estimate 
the spot exchange rate as the rate that would have 
applied to an orderly exchange transaction at the 
measurement date between market participants under 
prevailing economic conditions. In that case, an entity 
is required to disclose information that enables users of 
its financial statements to evaluate how the currency’s 
lack of exchangeability affects, or is expected to affect, 
the entity’s financial performance, financial position 
and cash flows.
(iii)	 Early adoption of standards
The Group did not early-adopt any new or amended 
standards in the year ended 31 December 2023.
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
3.1	 Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the 
financial statements of the Nairobi Securities Exchange 
Plc and its subsidiaries, controlled structured entities, 
a limited liability partnership and interest in associate 
company made up to 31 December 2023. These have 
all been fully consolidated. 
(i)	
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured 
entities) over which the group has control. The group 
controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has 
rights to, variable returns from its involvement with 
the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are 
fully consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from 
the date that control ceases.
The group applies the acquisition method to account for 
business combinations. The consideration transferred 
for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the 
assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former 
owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued 
by the group. The consideration transferred includes 
the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from 
a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. 
The group recognises any non-controlling interest in 
the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, 
either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the recognised amounts of 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related 
costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, 
the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s 
previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-
measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any 
gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are 
recognised in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by 
the group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the 
contingent consideration that is deemed to be an 
asset or liability is recognised in accordance with 
IFRS 9 either in profit or loss or as a change to other 
comprehensive income. Contingent consideration 
that is classified as equity is not re-measured, and 
its subsequent settlement is accounted for within 
equity. The excess of the consideration transferred, 
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the 
acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any 
previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair 
value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded 
as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, 
non-controlling interest recognised and previously 
held interest measured is less than the fair value of the 
net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a 
2	
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR 
FINANCIAL POSITION (CONTINUED)
c.	 Adoption of new and revised International 
Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) (Continued)
(ii)	 Impact of new and amended standards and 
interpretations in issue but not yet  
effective (Continued)
89
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly 
in the profit or loss.
The Group financial statements incorporate the assets, 
liabilities and results of the operations of the NSE 
Clear Limited, a company formed to act as a central 
counterparty in all the derivative transactions and AKS 
Nominees Ltd. Investments in subsidiaries are carried 
at cost less accumulated impairment losses in the 
Company’s separate financial statements. Details of 
NSE’s subsidiary are set out in Note 16. 
The accounting policies of the subsidiaries have been 
changed where necessary to align them with the 
policies adopted by the Group.
(ii)	 Structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund and 
the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund are trusts 
established under the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant 
to the statutory obligations imposed on the NSE, as 
a licensed exchange, by the provisions of the Capital 
Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 and 
clause 1.90 and 1.10 of the NSE Derivatives Rules. 
Clause 1.90 requires that the NSE, shall by itself or 
through a clearing house, establish and maintain 
a Settlement Guarantee Fund to strengthen the 
financial integrity of the derivatives market and ensure 
settlement of transactions in derivatives securities in 
case of default by a clearing member (CM). Clause 1.10 
requires that the NSE shall establish and maintain an 
Investor Protection Fund to satisfy specified claims 
by the investing public arising out of non-settlement 
of obligations owed to them by trading members or 
losses incurred by reason of the default of the trading 
members up to an amount specified in the rules. 
Management and administration of the assets and 
operations of these trusts is done by a management 
committee formed by the NSE Clear Board of Directors. 
The Trustees of the funds act as the custodians and 
trustees of the assets of these Funds as defined in 
the trust deeds and rules of these Funds. The Fund’s 
assets are segregated from the assets of the NSE and 
the NSE Clear Limited but are effectively controlled 
by NSE Clear Limited. The NSE, by virtue of its role as 
the parent company of the clearing house, NSE Clear 
Limited, has to consolidate the results of these funds in 
its annual financial statements. 
The subsidiary and structured entities are stated at cost 
less accumulated impairment losses in the separate 
financial statements of the Company. Separate 
financial statements are prepared for the subsidiary 
and the structured entities, and independent external 
audits performed.
(iii)	 Investment in associate 
Associates are those entities which the Group has 
significant influence, but not control, over the 
financial and operating policies. Significant influence 
is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 
20% to 50% of the voting power of another entity. 
The results and assets and liabilities of associates 
are incorporated in these financial statements using 
the equity method of accounting. Under the equity 
method, investments in associates are carried in the 
statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for 
post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the 
net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the 
value of individual investments. Losses of an associate 
in excess of the Group’s interest in that associate are 
recognised only to the extent that the Group has 
incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the associate.
(iv)	 Partnership
The NSE Limited Liability Partnership (NSE LLP) was 
set up to run the recently launched Unquoted Scripts 
Platform. The Partners of the LLP are the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer of the 
NSE PLC. The LLP also has a Management Committee 
that oversees the day to day activities of the LLP. The 
Management Committee of the LLP reports to the Board 
of Directors of NSE PLC. As per the Partnership Deed, 
NSE PLC shall contribute 100% of the capital of the 
NSE LLP, and all profit and losses of the NSE LLP shall 
be allocated to NSE PLC. Separate financial statements 
are prepared for the NSE LLP and independent external 
audit performed.
NSE LLP is stated at cost less accumulated impairment 
losses in the separate financial statements of the 
Company. The results of NSE LLP are incorporated 
in the statements of profit or loss in the Company’s 
financial statements. Separate financial statements are 
prepared for the Partnership, and independent external 
audits performed.
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.1	Basis of consolidation (Continued)
(i)	
Subsidiaries (Continued)
90
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
3.2	 Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions and any 
unrealized income and expenses arising from intra-
group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Unrealized gains arising from transactions with 
equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the 
investment to the extent of the Groups’ interest in the 
investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same 
way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that 
there is no evidence of impairment.
3.3	 Foreign currencies 
i)	
Functional and Presentation currency
The financial statements of each of the Group’s entities 
are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates 
(the “Functional Currency”). The financial statements 
are presented in Kenya Shilling which is the Group’s 
and the Company’s Functional and Presentation 
Currency. Except as indicated, financial information 
presented in Kenya Shillings has been rounded to the 
nearest thousand.
ii)	
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions that are transactions 
denominated, or that require settlement, in a foreign 
currency are translated into the respective functional 
currencies of the operations using the exchange rates 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end 
of each reporting period, monetary items denominated 
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates 
prevailing at that date. 
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting 
from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation at year end exchange rates of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in profit or loss. 
Translation differences on non-monetary financial 
instruments, such as equities held at fair value through 
profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value 
gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary 
financial instruments, such as equities classified as 
financial assets through other comprehensive income 
are included in other comprehensive income.
3.4 	Income recognition
The Group recognises income as and when it satisfies 
a performance obligation by transferring control 
of a service to a customer. The amount of income 
recognised is the amount the Group expects to receive 
in accordance with the terms of the contract, and 
excludes discounts and amounts collected on behalf of 
third parties, such as Value Added Tax.
Transaction levy income is based on a percentage of 
the value of shares traded and is recognised on the 
dates of the transactions. The transaction levy on 
equity is computed at the rate of 0.12% of the value of 
all equity transactions executed while that for bonds 
is computed at a rate of 0.0035% of the value of all 
fixed income transactions executed. The levy fees are 
computed on both the buy and sell side.
Data vending income is fees charged for the sale 
of trading data statistics. This is charged either 
on a lumpsum, monthly, quarterly or annual basis 
depending on the contract provision and how 
the how the performance obligation is satisfied 
throughout the contract.
Data vending income that is not charged on a monthly 
but on a lump sum basis is recognized in income based 
on the contract value. Where the contract value is 
below 5% of the budgeted total data vending income 
for that year, then all the data income is booked in full 
within the year the income is contracted. Where the 
contract value is above 5% of the budgeted total data 
income then only the portion for the year is recognized 
within income for that year. 
Annual listing fee is computed on the basis of the daily 
weighted average capitalisation value of the listed 
securities for the 11 months period between 1 January 
and 30 November. This fee is generally paid in advance 
on the first day of the membership or subscription 
period. The Group recognises revenue on a straight-
line basis over the period to which the fee relates, 
as this reflects the extent of the Group’s progress 
towards completion of the performance obligation 
under the contract.
Initial listing income is recognized in the year in which 
the listing company makes the flotation. Additional 
listing income is recognized during the year in which the 
issuing company makes announcement of the bonus/
rights issues. The initial listing and additional listing 
fees represent one performance obligation and are 
billed to the issuing company at the time of admission 
to trading and become payable when invoiced.
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
91
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Interest income from a financial asset is recognised on 
a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding 
and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset 
to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
The Unquoted Securities Platform (USP) is an automated 
solution for the issuance and trading of securities of 
unquoted companies. The platform offers world class 
trading infrastructure and information services as well 
as enables company’s access capital markets for long 
term funding through private placements and restricted 
offers. Unquoted securities platform fee is charged on 
the issuer application fees based on the approved rates 
for initial admission, annual service, secondary transfer 
per transaction, fund raising fee, financier admission 
fee and settlement custodian fee and is recognized in 
income on the date of the transaction.
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss when 
the right to receive payment is established, which is 
the date the dividend is declared. 
Market access fees are fees charged on the admission 
of a market participant as a member of the Group and 
are recognised over a period of three years.
Other income comprises income charged on the broker 
back office, rental income, net foreign exchange gains, 
profit on sale of property and equipment, investor 
protection levy, management fee, surplus distribution 
by Settlement Guarantee Fund, training fee and 
miscellaneous income. 
Broker back office (BBO) subscription is the fee 
charged on a monthly basis to trading firms that have 
signed on to use the BBO trading system as provided 
in the contract.
Rental income from investment property is recognised 
in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the 
term of the lease. 
Management fee is charged by the NSE to the 
subsidiaries and structured entities to cater for 
expenses attributable to investment and treasury 
management services, staff costs and other general 
and administrative overheads. 
Surplus distributed by the Settlement Guarantee Fund 
(SGF) is income charged to compensate the Clearing 
Members who have contributed to the SGF. This is 
computed at 80% of the total surplus for the year for 
SGF and distributed to the members based on their 
capital contributions. Since contributions from the 
clearing members are refundable at any point on exit 
of the member, the computed surplus for the clearing 
members is expensed while that of the NSE is offset 
against retained earnings.
An investor protection levy of 0.01% is charged on the 
transaction value/notional value (or such other amount 
as may be determined by the NSE in consultation with 
the CMA), for all transactions in derivative securities 
which levy is remitted to the Investor Protection Fund. 
3.5	 Property and equipment
The building is carried at revaluation less any subsequent 
accumulated depreciation. Revaluations are performed 
with sufficient regularity to ensure that the carrying 
amount does not differ materially from that which 
would be determined using fair value at the end of the 
year. The frequency of valuation is annual.
Motor vehicles and equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Professional valuations on buildings are carried out 
in accordance with the Group policy. The fair value 
is determined based on the market comparable 
approach that reflects recent transaction prices for 
similar properties. In estimating the fair value of the 
properties, the highest and best use of the properties 
is their current use. There has been no change to the 
valuation technique during the year.
Increases in the carrying amounts of property resulting 
from revaluation is recognized in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in equity, except to the 
extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for the 
same asset previously recognized in profit or loss, in 
which case the increase is credited to profit or loss 
to the extent of the decrease previously expensed. A 
decrease in carrying amount arising on the revaluation 
of buildings is recognized in profit or loss to the 
extent that it exceeds the balance, if any, held in the 
properties revaluation reserve relating to a previous 
revaluation of that asset.
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.4 	Income recognition (Continued)
92
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis to 
write down the cost of each asset to its residual value 
over its estimated useful life as follows:
Motor vehicles	
4 years
Furniture and fittings	
8 years
Office equipment 	
4 years
Computer equipment 	
4 years
Buildings	
46 years 
An asset’s carrying amount is written down 
immediately to its estimated recoverable amount if the 
asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated 
recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of equipment are 
determined as the difference between the sales 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the 
date of disposal and taken into account in determining 
operating profit. Gains or losses arising from changes 
in fair value of the building are included in other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they 
arise net of deferred taxes.
3.6	 Intangible assets
Intangible assets represent purchased computer 
software and is initially recognised at cost. Following 
initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated to write-
off software on a straight-line basis over the estimated 
useful life of 4 – 10 years.
3.7	 Impairment of tangible and 
intangible assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews 
the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible 
assets to review the useful lives and determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the 
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated and 
an impairment loss is recognized in profit or loss 
whenever the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount.
3.8	 Investment property
Investment property, which is property held to earn 
rentals, is stated at its fair value, at the reporting date 
as determined through its revaluation by external 
valuers on the basis of the highest and best use. Gains 
or losses arising from changes in fair value of the 
investment property are included in profit or loss in the 
year in which they arise. 
3.9	 Restricted cash and investments
The Group classifies all cash, cash equivalents and 
investments that are not available for general use by 
the Group, either due to regulatory requirements or 
through restrictions in specific agreements, as restricted 
in the accompanying statement of financial position.
	
Short-term restricted cash and investments
As required by the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) 
Regulations, 2015, the Group is required to maintain a 
minimum liquid net-worth capital requirement equal 
to one half of the total estimated operating costs for 
the next twelve (12) months period. At 31 December 
2023, this amount was Sh 317 million (2022: Sh 296 
million). The amounts are reflected as short-term 
restricted cash and investments (note 23).
	
Long-term restricted cash and investments
The NSE has contributed Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million 
and Sh 10 million as seed capital to the subsidiary, 
NSE Clear Limited, and the structured entities, NSE 
Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund and NSE 
Derivatives Investor Protection Fund respectively. 
These amounts could be used in the event of a clearing/
trading member’s default where the amount of the 
defaulting clearing/trading member’s initial, variation 
and additional margins and guarantee fund deposits 
are insufficient. These amounts together with related 
earned interest are held in bank deposits that have 
been classified as restricted (note 19).
3.10 Financial instruments
(i)	
Equity instruments
Equity instruments are instruments that meet the 
definition of equity from the issuer’s perspective; 
that is, instruments that do not contain a contractual 
obligation to pay and that evidence a residual interest 
in the issuer’s net assets e.g. basic ordinary shares. 
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.5	 Property and equipment (Continued)
93
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
The Group management has elected, at initial 
recognition, to irrevocably designate an equity 
investment at fair value through other comprehensive 
income (FVOCI) when those investments are held for 
purposes other than to generate investment returns.
Dividends, when representing a return on such 
investments, continue to be recognised in profit or 
loss as other income when the Group’s right to receive 
payment is established.
(ii)	 Debt instruments 
a)	
Recognition and subsequent measurement
Financial instruments are recognised when, and only 
when, the Group becomes party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. All financial assets are 
recognised initially using the trade date accounting 
which is the date the Group commits itself to the 
purchase or sale. 
At initial recognition, financial assets are measured 
at fair value, and are classified and subsequently 
measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), 
fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVTOCI) or amortized cost based on: 
	» the Group’s business model for managing the 
financial assets; and 
	» the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
Based on these factors, the Group classifies its 
financial assets into one of the following three 
measurement categories:
	» Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection 
of contractual cash flows where those cash flows 
represent solely payments of principal and interest 
are measured at amortised cost. Interest income 
from these financial assets is included in finance 
income using the effective interest rate method. Any 
gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised 
directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains/ 
(losses) together with foreign exchange gains and 
losses. Impairment losses are presented as separate 
line item in the statement of profit or loss.
	» FVTOCI: Assets that are held for collection of 
contractual cash flows and for selling the financial 
assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest, are measured 
at FVTOCI. Movements in the carrying amount 
are taken through OCI, except for the recognition 
of impairment gains or losses, interest income 
and foreign exchange gains and losses which are 
recognised in profit or loss. When the financial 
asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss 
previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from 
equity to profit or loss and recognised in other gains/ 
(losses). Interest income from these financial assets 
is included in finance income using the effective 
interest rate method. Foreign exchange gains and 
losses are presented in other gains/ (losses) and 
impairment expenses are presented as separate line 
item in the statement of profit or loss.
	» FVTPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for 
amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL. A 
gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently 
measured at FVTPL is recognised in profit or loss 
and presented net within other gains/ (losses) in the 
period in which it arises.
	» Business model: the business model reflects how 
the Group manages the assets in order to generate 
cash flows i.e. whether the Group’s objective is 
solely to collect the contractual cash flows from 
the assets or is to collect both the contractual cash 
flows and cash flows arising from the sale of assets. 
If neither of these is applicable (e.g. financial assets 
held for trading purposes), then the financial assets 
are classified as part of ‘other’ business model 
and measured at FVTPL. Factors considered by 
the Group in determining the business model for 
a group of assets include past experience on how 
the cash flows for these assets were collected, how 
the asset’s performance is evaluated and reported 
to key management personnel and how risks are 
assessed and managed.
	» SPPI: Where the business model is to hold assets 
to collect contractual cash flows or to collect 
contractual cash flows and sell, the Group assesses 
whether the financial instruments’ cash flows 
represent solely payments of principal and interest 
(‘SPPI test’). In making this assessment, the Group 
considers whether the contractual cash flows are 
consistent with a basic lending arrangement i.e. 
includes only consideration for the time value 
of money, credit risk, other basic lending risks 
and a profit margin that is consistent with a basic 
lending arrangement. Where the contractual terms 
introduce exposure to risk or volatility that are 
inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement, the 
related financial asset is classified and measured at 
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.10	 Financial instruments (Continued)
(i)	
Equity instruments (Continued)
94
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
fair value through profit or loss. 
The Group reclassifies financial assets when and only when 
its business model for managing those assets changes.
b)	
Impairment 
The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected 
credit losses (ECL) on financial assets that are 
measured at amortised cost or at fair value through 
other comprehensive income. 
The loss allowance is measured at an amount equal 
to the lifetime expected credit losses for financial 
instruments for which: (a) the credit risk has increased 
significantly since initial recognition; or (b) there is 
observable evidence of impairment (a credit-impaired 
financial asset). If, at the reporting date, the credit risk 
on a financial asset other than a trade receivable has not 
increased significantly since initial recognition, the loss 
allowance is measured for that financial instrument at 
an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses. 
All changes in the loss allowance are recognised in 
profit or loss as impairment gains or losses.
Lifetime expected credit losses represent the expected 
credit losses that result from all possible default 
events over the expected life of a financial instrument. 
12-month expected credit losses represent the portion 
of lifetime expected credit losses that result from 
default events on a financial asset that are possible 
within 12 months after the reporting date.
Expected credit losses are measured in a way that 
reflects 
an 
unbiased 
and 
probability-weighted 
amount determined by evaluating a range of possible 
outcomes, the time value of money, and reasonable 
and supportable information that is available without 
undue cost or effort at the reporting date about past 
events, current conditions and forecasts of future 
economic conditions.
In applying the IFRS 9 impairment requirements, the 
Group follows one of the approaches below:
	» The general approach
	» The simplified approach
	
The General Approach
Under the general approach, at each reporting date, 
the Group determines whether the financial asset is 
in one of the three stages below, to determine both 
the amount of ECL to recognise as well as how interest 
income should be recognised.
	» Stage 1 - where credit risk has not increased significantly 
since initial recognition. For financial assets in stage 1, 
the Group will recognise 12 month ECL and recognise 
interest income on a gross basis – this means that 
interest will be calculated on the gross carrying amount 
of the financial asset before adjusting for ECL.
	» Stage 2 - where credit risk has increased significantly 
since initial recognition. When a financial asset transfers 
to stage 2, the Group will recognise lifetime ECL 
but interest income will continue to be recognised 
on a gross basis.
	» Stage 3 - where the financial asset is credit impaired. 
This is effectively the point at which there has been an 
incurred loss event. For financial assets in stage 3, the 
Group will continue to recognise lifetime ECL but they 
will now recognise interest income on a net basis. As 
such, interest income will be calculated based on the 
gross carrying amount of the financial asset less ECL.
An asset is credit-impaired if one or more events 
have occurred that have a detrimental impact on the 
estimated future cash flows of the asset. 
The changes in the loss allowance balance are 
recognised in profit or loss as an impairment gain or loss.
	
The Simplified approach
Under the simplified approach, the Group measures 
the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime 
expected credit losses.
	
Definition of default
The Group will consider a financial asset to be 
in default when:
	» the counterparty or borrower is unlikely to pay 
their credit obligations to the Group in full, without 
recourse by the Group to actions such as realising 
security (if any is held); or
	» the counterparty or borrower is more than 90 days 
past due on any material credit obligation to the 
Group. This will be consistent with the rebuttable 
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.10	 Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii)	 Debt instruments (Continued)
a)	 Recognition and subsequent 
measurement (Continued)
95
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
criteria set out by IFRS 9 and existing practice 
of the Group; or
In assessing whether the counterparty or borrower is in 
default, the Group considers indicators that are:
	» Qualitative: e.g. Breach of covenant and other 
indicators of financial distress;
	» Quantitative: e.g. Overdue status and non-payment 
of another obligation of the same issuer to 
the Company; and
	» Based on data developed internally and obtained 
from external sources. 
	» Inputs into the assessment of whether a financial 
instrument is in default and their significance may 
vary over time to reflect changes in circumstances. 
	
Significant increase in credit risk (SIICR)
When determining whether the credit risk (i.e. risk 
of default) on a financial instrument has increased 
significantly since initial recognition, the Group 
considers reasonable and supportable information 
that is relevant and available without undue cost or 
effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative 
information and analysis based on the Group’s 
historical experience, expert credit assessment and 
forward-looking information.
The Group primarily identifies whether a significant 
increase in credit risk has occurred for an 
exposure by comparing:
	» The remaining lifetime probability of default (PD) as 
at the reporting date; with
	» The remaining lifetime PD for this point in time that 
was estimated on initial recognition of the exposure.
The assessment of significant deterioration is key 
in establishing the point of switching between the 
requirement to measure an allowance based on 
12-month expected credit losses and one that is based 
on lifetime expected credit losses.
The Group monitors the effectiveness of the criteria 
used to identify significant increases in credit risk by 
regular reviews to confirm that:
	» the criteria are capable of identifying significant 
increases in credit risk before an exposure is in default;
	» the criteria do not align with the point in time when 
an asset becomes 30 days past due;
	» the average time between the identification of 
a significant increase in credit risk and default 
appears reasonable;
	» exposures are not generally transferred from 
12-month ECL measurement to credit-impaired; and
	» there is no unwarranted volatility in loss allowance 
from transfers between 12-month and lifetime 
ECL measurements.
	
Measurement of ECL
The key inputs into the measurement of ECL are the 
term structures of the following variables: 
	» Probability of Default (PD)
	» Loss given default (LGD) and
	» Exposure at default (EAD)
To determine lifetime and 12-month PDs, the Group 
uses externally developed PD tables based on the 
default history of obligors with the same credit rating. 
The Group adopts the same approach for unrated 
investments by mapping external credit ratings. 
Changes in the rating for a counterparty or exposure 
lead to a change in the estimate of the associated PD.
LGD is the magnitude of the likely loss if there is a 
default. The Group estimates LGD parameters based on 
the history of recovery rates of claims against defaulted 
counterparties. The LGD models consider the structure, 
collateral, seniority of the claim, counterparty industry 
and recovery costs of any collateral that is integral to 
the financial asset. 
EAD represents the expected exposure in the event of 
a default. The Group derives the EAD from the current 
exposure to the counterparty and potential changes 
to the current amount allowed under the contract, 
including amortisation, and prepayments. The EAD of 
a financial asset is its gross carrying amount.
As described above, and subject to using a maximum 
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.10	 Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii)	 Debt instruments (Continued)
b)	 Impairment (Continued)
	
Definition of default (Continued)
96
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
of a 12-month PD for financial assets for which 
credit risk has not significantly increased, the Group 
measures ECL considering the risk of default over the 
maximum contractual period over which it is exposed 
to credit risk, even if, for risk management purposes, 
the Group considers a longer period. Where modelling 
of a parameter is carried out on a collective basis, 
the financial instruments are grouped on the basis of 
shared risk characteristics, which include: instrument 
type; credit risk grading; collateral type; date of initial 
recognition; remaining term to maturity.
The groupings are subject to regular review to 
ensure that exposures within a group remain 
appropriately homogeneous.
When ECLs are measured using parameters based 
on collective modelling, a significant input into the 
measurement of ECL is the external benchmark 
information that the Group uses to derive the default 
rates of its portfolios. This includes the PDs provided 
by rating agencies.
Expected credit losses are computed as a product of 
the Probability of Default (PD), Loss Given Default 
(LGD) and the Exposure at Default (EAD).
ECL = PD x LGD x EAD
c)	
Modification of contracts 
The Group rarely renegotiates or otherwise modifies 
the contractual cash flows of securities. When this 
happens, the Group assesses whether or not the new 
terms are substantially different to the original terms. 
The Group does this by considering, among others, the 
following factors:
	» If the counterparty is in financial difficulty
	» Whether any substantial new terms are introduced 
that affect the risk profile of the instrument
	» Significant extension of the contract term when the 
borrower is not in financial difficulty
	» Significant change in interest rate
	» Change in the currency the security is denominated in 
	» Inclusion of collateral, other security or credit 
enhancements that significantly affect the credit risk 
associated with the loan
If the terms are substantially different, the Group 
derecognises 
the 
original 
financial 
asset 
and 
recognises a ‘new’ asset at fair value and recalculates 
a new EIR for the asset. The date of renegotiation is 
consequently considered the date of initial recognition 
for impairment calculation purposes, including the 
purpose of determining whether a SIICR has occurred. 
If the terms are not substantially different and the 
renegotiation or modification does not result in 
derecognition, the Group recalculates the gross 
carrying amount based on the revised cash flows of 
the financial asset and recognises a modification gain 
or loss in profit or loss. The new gross carrying amount 
is recalculated by discounting the modified cash flows 
at the original EIR.
d)	
Write off policy
The Group writes off financial assets, in whole or in 
part when it has exhausted all practical recovery 
effort and has concluded that there is no reasonable 
expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no 
reasonable expectation of recovery include (i) ceasing 
enforcement activity; and (ii) the Group is foreclosing 
on collateral and the value of the collateral is such as 
there is no reasonable expectation of recovering in full.
The Group may write-off financial assets that are still 
subject to enforcement activity. The Group still seeks 
to recover amounts it is legally owed in full, but which 
have been partially written off due to no reasonable 
expectation of full recovery.
3.11 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, 
cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand 
and demand deposits and other short term liquid 
investments which are readily convertible into known 
amounts of cash and which were within three months 
of maturity when acquired, less advances from banks 
repayable within three months from the dates of the 
advances and interest earned but not received as at 
the reporting date.
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.10	 Financial instruments (Continued)
(ii)	 Debt instruments (Continued)
b)	 Impairment (Continued)
	
Measurement of ECL (Continued)
97
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
3.12 Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the current 
income tax and deferred income tax.
Current income tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit 
for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as 
reported in the statement of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income because of items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years 
and items that are never taxable or deductible. The 
Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the end of the reporting period.
Management establishes provisions where appropriate 
on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the 
tax authorities.
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of 
taxable profit. 
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for 
all deductible temporary differences to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which those deductible temporary 
differences are utilised. 
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises from 
good will or from the initial recognition (other than in a 
business combination) of other assets and liabilities in 
a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor 
the accounting profit. The carrying amount of deferred 
tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available 
to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all 
taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax liabilities 
and assets are measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the period in which the liability 
is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that 
have been enacted by the end of the reporting period. 
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets 
reflects the tax consequences that would follow from 
the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of 
the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying 
amount of its assets and liabilities.
Current and deferred income tax for the year
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, 
except when they relate to items that are recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, 
in which case, the current and deferred tax are also 
recognised in other comprehensive income.
3.13 Employee entitlements
Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised 
when they accrue to employees. A provision is 
made for the estimated liability for annual leave as 
a result of services rendered by employees up to the 
date of reporting.
3.14 Segmental reporting
The Group determines and presents operating 
segments based on the information that is internally 
provided to the Executive Committee. An operating 
segment is a component of the Group that engages 
in business activities from which it may earn revenues 
and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses 
that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s 
other components. Costs in the NSE are managed 
holistically across the Exchange and variances against 
budget are closely monitored. 
3.15 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a defined contribution provident 
scheme for all its employees. The scheme is 
administered by CPF Financial Services and is funded 
by contributions from both the Group and employees. 
The Group also contributes to a statutory contribution 
pension scheme, the National Social Security Fund 
(NSSF). The Group’s obligations under the scheme 
are limited to specific contributions legislated from 
time to time. The Group’s contributions to these 
schemes are charged to the profit or loss in the year in 
which they relate.
3.16 Dividends payable
Dividends payable on ordinary shares are charged 
to retained earnings in the period in which they are 
declared. Proposed dividends are not accrued for until 
ratified in an Annual General Meeting.
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
98
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
3.17 Earnings per share
The Group presents earnings per share (EPS) data for 
its ordinary shareholders in the financial statements. 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or 
loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the 
NSE by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is 
determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable 
to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding adjusted for 
the effects of all potentially dilutive shares.
3.18 Share capital and share premium
The share capital and premium of the Company 
includes balances relating to the Company’s ordinary 
equity shares and own shares held by the Employee 
Share Ownership Plan (ESOP).
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental 
costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary 
shares are recognised as a deduction from equity, net 
of any tax effects, from the proceeds.
3.19 Employee Shares Ownership Plan (ESOP) 
The Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc ESOP - Unit Trust 
(the “ESOP”) was established by Nairobi Securities 
Exchange Plc, the sponsor, on 25 June 2019 to enable 
participation of its employees in the ownership of the 
Company. The ESOP was set up as a Unit Trust with 
the principal objective or acquiring and holding shares 
of the Company for the benefit of its employees as 
governed by the Trust Deed. The ESOP commenced 
operations on 24 May 2022.
Allocation of shares to the ESOP is subject to the 
Company’s bonus scheme policy where part of the 
eligible employees’ bonuses are used to purchase the 
shares at a discount to the prevailing market price 
of the shares with a discount of 20%. The shares so 
purchased are settled in the ESOP and corresponding 
units are created and allocated to the eligible 
employees. The units have a three year vesting period. 
Upon vesting, the unitholders are entitled the full 
economic benefits relating to the vested units and can 
take the following actions with respect to the shares 
corresponding to the units that have vested:
	» Sell the shares in the open market;
	» Transfer the shares from the ESOP to their respective 
Central Depository System (CDSC) account; or
	» Leave the shares within the ESOP and enjoy 
the economic benefits of those shares as any 
other shareholder.
When the Company issues new shares to the ESOP to 
satisfy vesting of specific employee share schemes, the 
share capital of the Company is increased by the par 
value of these own shares. These shares may be issued 
at a subscription price above par value, reflecting the 
premium payable by the participant in the ESOP. The 
subscription price is the quoted closing market price 
of the NSE share on the day of issuing the shares. In 
such instances, the share capital of the Company is 
increased by the par value of these own shares and the 
difference between the subscription price and the par 
value of the own share is recorded in share premium. 
The total value of the shares issued at subscription 
price is purchased by employees using bonus and is 
therefore included in expenses.
3.20 Minimum liquid net worth requirement 
The Capital Markets (Derivatives Market) Regulations, 
2015 clause 15 (1) and 15 (2) require that a futures 
exchange have and maintain a minimum liquid 
net-worth equal to one half of the estimated gross 
operating costs of the futures exchange for the next 
twelve (12) month period or such other liquid net-
worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. 
The requirement is met as per Note 38.
3.21 Comparatives
Where necessary, comparative figures have been 
adjusted to conform to changes in the presentation in 
the current year.
In particular, changes in presentation of the comparative 
figures have been made to statement of cashflows to 
remove any non-cash items. The table below shows 
the line items affected by the change in presentation.
3	
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES (CONTINUED)
99
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

Group
Company
2022 as 
previously 
presented
2022 current 
presentation
Change
2022 as 
previously 
presented
2022 current 
presentation
Change
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Cash flows from operating 
activities
Adjustments for non-cash 
items 
 9,589 
12,112
 (2,523)
 (2,916)
 (557)
 (2,359)
Working capital changes
 19,586 
13,482
 6,104 
17,214
13,575
 3,639 
Cash (used in)/generated 
from operations
 66,974 
 63,393 
 3,581 
 75,410 
 74,130 
 1,280 
Net cash used in operating 
activities
 (30,388)
 (33,969)
3,581
 (19,173)
 (20,453)
 1,280 
Cash flows from investing 
activities
Investment in long term 
restricted investments
 (981)
 1,160 
 (2,141)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cash generated from 
investing activities
 (88,455)
 (86,314)
 (2,141)
(110,419)
(110,419)
 - 
Increase/(decrease) in cash 
and cash equivalents
(362,808)
 (364,248)
 1,440 
(372,931)
(374,211)
 1,280 
Cash and cash equivalents at 
the end of year
 251,674 
 250,234 
 1,440 
 229,968 
 228,688 
 1,280 
4	 ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINITY
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management makes estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgments are continually 
evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas of judgment and estimation in applying the entities accounting policies are dealt with below:
Valuation of land and building
The fair value model has been applied in accounting for land and building. The Group commissioned external, independent 
and professionally qualified real estate valuers that hold recognised relevant professional qualification and have recent 
experience in the location and type of property valued to determine the fair value of the property as at 31 December 
2023 and 2022 on the basis of net income approach. The current use of the portion of the land and building accounted 
for as investment property equates to the highest and best use. The valuation of the land and building is based on the 
net income approach. The Group’s land and building are valued by reference to a level 3 fair value measurement. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
3	 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
3.21 Comparatives (Continued)
100
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
5	 OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group entities are all domiciled in Kenya. The Group has two main business segments based at Group level and company:
	» Cash equities and interest rate market segment comprises the equities and bond trading business. This includes other 
income comprising broker back office income, rental income, data fees and other incomes; and
	» Derivatives market segment comprises of the futures trading business.
Each business segment offers different products and services and is managed separately because each requires different 
technology and a different marketing strategy. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the 
Group’s accounting policies described in note 3. Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment without 
allocation of the share of profits of associate and income tax expense.
The information provided about each segment is based on the internal reports about segment profit or loss, assets and 
other information, which are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board for the purpose of resource 
allocation and assessment of segment performance. The segment results were as follows:
Statement of financial position
Cash equities and 
interest rate market
Derivatives market
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
2023
ASSETS
Property and equipment, investment property and 
intangible assets
512,705
-
512,705
Government securities
443,297
-
443,297
Long-term restricted investments
-
143,382
143,382
Short-term restricted cash and investments
317,171
-
317,171
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
89,088
823
89,911
Other assets
513,151
8,447
521,598
1,875,412
152,652
2,028,064
LIABILITIES
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contribution
-
11,750
11,750
Trade and other payables 
70,603
4,344
74,947
Dividends payable
60,221
-
60,221
Tenant deposits
2,215
-
2,215
Trading members’ contributions
-
2,200
2,200
133,039
18,294
151,333
101
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Cash equities and 
interest rate market
Derivatives market
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
2022
ASSETS
Property and equipment, investment property and 
intangible assets
555,988
-
555,988
Government securities
 458,990 
 - 
 458,990
Long-term restricted investments
-
 145,314 
 145,314 
Short-term restricted cash and investments
 296,470
 - 
 296,470 
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
78,784
 13 
78,797
Other assets
 490,111
 8,019 
498,130
1,880,343
153,346
2,033,689
LIABILITIES
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contribution
-
11,750
11,750
Trade and other payables 
59,210
4,363
63,573
Dividends payable
57,109
-
57,109
Tenant deposits
2,215
-
2,215
Trading members’ contributions
-
2,000
2,000
118,534
18,113
136,647
2023
Reductions to non-current assets
(39,944)
(1,936)
(41,880)
Non-current assets
1,024,196
143,383
1,167,579
2022
Additions to non-current assets
141,356
986
142,342
Non-current assets
1,064,140
145,319
1,209,459
5	 OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Statement of financial position (Continued)
102
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
Cash equities and 
interest rate market
Derivatives market
Total 
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000 
2023
Revenue (Note 6)
492,279
-
492,279
Interest income
104,272
16,678
120,950
Other income
49,051
41
49,092
Total income
645,602
16,719
662,321
Administrative expenses 
554,913
7,933
562,846
Depreciation and amortisation
37,720
-
37,720
Share of loss of associate
19,429
-
19,429
Profit before income tax
33,540
8,786
42,326
2022
 
Revenue (Note 6)
506,754
-
506,754
Interest income
92,248
12,128
104,376
Other income
31,538
96
31,634
Total income
630,540
12,224
642,764
Administrative expenses 
506,103
3,806
509,909
Depreciation and amortisation
48,512
-
48,512
Share of loss of associate
46,544
-
46,544
Profit before income tax
29,381
8,418
37,799
All revenues are earned in Kenya. There are no revenues derived from transactions with a single external customer that 
amounted to 10% or more of the Group’s revenues.
5	 OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
103
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Group
Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
6
REVENUE
Revenue recognized at a point in time
Transaction levy - equity
211,094
225,838
211,094
225,838
Transaction levy - bond
64,395
79,380
64,395
79,380
Initial listing fees
5,000
5,175
3,500
5,175
Application and additional listing fees
300
1,505
300
1,505
Unquoted securities platform fees
2,439
6,463
-
-
283,228
318,361
279,289
311,898
Revenue recognized over time
Annual listing fees
64,538
64,495
64,538
64,495
Broker back-office subscription
27,944
29,656
27,944
29,656
Market access fees
-
694
-
694
Data vending income
116,569
93,548
116,569
93,548
209,051
188,393
209,051
188,393
492,279
506,754
488,340
500,291
7
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX
The profit before income tax is arrived at after 
charging/(crediting):
Employee benefits (note 8)
176,452
177,359
176,452
177,359
Depreciation of property and equipment (note 12)
17,547
26,214
17,340
26,213
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 14)
20,173
22,298
20,173
22,298
Directors’ emoluments: 
- Executive (note 33 (a))
31,749
31,475
31,749
31,475
- Non–executive (note 33 (a))
 16,173
15,814
15,916
15,557
Auditor’s remuneration 
5,578
4,914
4,279
3,866
(Gain)/loss on disposal of equipment
(6)
644
(6)
644
Employee staff ownership plan expenses
1,819
1,811
1,819
1,811
(Decrease)/increase in impairment of financial 
assets measured at amortised cost (note 36 (b) (iii))
(5,145)
62
(4,334)
929
104
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Group
Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
8
(a) STAFF COSTS
Salaries and wages
154,657
151,514
154,657
151,514
Bonus
774
7,508
774
7,508
Leave pay expense
4,931
4,661
4,931
4,661
Provident fund contribution
14,356
13,575
14,356
13,575
Other staff costs 
1,734
101
1,734
101
176,452
177,359
176,452
177,359
The staff numbers as at 31 December 2023 were 45 (2022 - 44).
(b)	OTHER EXPENSES
Data marketing expenses
21,861
10,925
21,861
10,925
Insurance expenses
18,476
17,197
18,476
17,197
Communication and connectivity expenses
13,183
11,528
13,183
11,528
Professional and consultancy expenses
13,692
10,595
11,095
7,999
System licenses and cyber security costs
30,565
21,252
30,565
21,252
Market and business development costs
37,416
46,208
37,416
45,943
Other expenses 
67,490
43,708
63,068
38,603
202,683
161,413
195,664
153,447
9
INTEREST INCOME
Interest on term deposits
59,804
46,666
40,416
32,590
Interest on treasury bonds
59,008
56,828
59,008
56,828
Interest on staff loans and advances
2,138
882
2,138
882
120,950
104,376
101,562
90,300
105
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Group
Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
10  OTHER INCOME
Rental income
6,481
6,337
6,481
6,337
Miscellaneous income
2,758
1,376
2,758
1,376
Training fees
9,632
6,580
9,632
6,580
Private transfer fee
984
1,146
984
1,146
Nomad fees
350
350
350
350
Gain on disposal of equipment
6
-
6
-
Annual members fees 
3,550
4,450
3,550
4,450
Ibuka fees 
53
50
53
50
Surplus distributed by SGF
-
-
6,868
5,691
Management fees
967
2,005
3,280
3,293
IPF levy
12
25
-
-
Margin interest
29
71
-
-
Exchange gain
16,228
3,134
16,228
3,134
Derivatives fees
29
63
29
63
Dividend from AKS Nominees Ltd
-
-
16,467
-
41,079
25,587
66,686
32,470
106
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
11	TAXATION
(a)	Taxation charge
Current income tax
Current year expense
23,731
35,572
20,295
32,986
Prior year tax under provision
-
78
-
957
23,731
35,650
20,295
33,943
Deferred income tax (note 21)
Current year charge/(credit)
191
(11,969)
187
(12,152)
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
(791)
680
-
-
Prior year deferred tax under provision
791
(286)
-
-
191
(11,575)
187
(12,152)
23,922
24,075
20,482
21,791
(b)	Reconciliation of taxation charge to the 
expected tax based on accounting profit
Profit before income tax
42,326
37,799
64,928
61,112
Tax calculated at a tax rate of 30% (2022: 30%)
12,698
11,340
19,478
18,334
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
26,552
18,756
23,926
13,074 
Net tax effects on items not deductible for tax
(15,407)
(11,783)
(22,922)
(10,574) 
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
(112)
5,970
-
-
Prior year deferred tax under provision
191
(286)
-
-
Prior year tax under provision
-
78
-
957
Income tax expense
23,922
24,075
20,482
21,791
(c)	Tax recoverable
At start of year
(94,135)
(32,423)
(87,888)
(27,248)
Charge to profit or loss (note 11 (a))
23,731
35,650
20,295
33,943
Tax paid
(27,905)
(97,362)
(23,044)
(94,583)
Tax paid by NSE LLP and recovered against NSE
-
-
(116)
-
At end of year
(98,309)
(94,135)
(90,753)
(87,888)
107
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
12 	PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT – GROUP
Building 
Motor 
vehicles
Furniture & 
fittings
Office 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
WIP
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
COST OR VALUATION 
At 1 January 2022
126,900
12,772
89,399
40,891
71,175
3,661
344,798
Additions
-
-
82
1,561
5,921
-
7,564
Disposals
-
-
(2,298)
(1,647)
(1,482)
-
(5,427)
Transfer from WIP
-
-
-
-
3,661
(3,661)
-
Revaluation loss
(12,691)
-
-
-
-
-
(12,691)
At 1 January 2023
114,209
12,772
87,183
40,805
79,275
-
334,244
Additions
-
-
-
1,782
294
-
2,076
Disposals
-
-
-
-
(99)
-
(99)
Revaluation loss
(12,690)
-
-
-
-
-
(12,690)
Adjustment
-
-
-
136
(136)
-
-
At 31 December 2023
101,519
12,772
87,183
42,723
79,334
-
323,531
Comprising:
At valuation
101,519
-
-
-
-
-
101,519
At cost
-
12,772
87,183
42,723
79,334
-
222,012
Cost or valuation
101,519
12,772
87,183
42,723
79,334
-
323,531
DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 2022
-
9,047
80,042
31,349
52,978
-
173,416
Charge for the year
2,778
3,193
2,561
6,473
11,209
-
26,214
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
(2,298)
(705)
(1,442)
-
(4,445)
Reversal on revaluation
(2,778)
-
-
-
-
-
(2,778)
At 1 January 2023
-
12,240
80,305
37,117
62,745
-
192,407
Charge for the year
2,500
532
2,487
2,701
9,327
-
17,547
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
-
-
(99)
-
(99)
Reversal on revaluation
(2,500)
-
-
-
-
-
(2,500)
At 31 December 2023
-
12,772
82,792
39,818
71,973
-
207,355
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2023
101,519
-
4,391
2,905
7,361
-
116,176
At 31 December 2022
114,209
532
6,878
3,688
16,530
-
141,837
108
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Building
Motor 
vehicles
Furniture& 
fittings
Office 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
WIP
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
COST OR VALUATION 
At 1 January 2022
126,900
12,772
89,399
40,887
71,175
3,661
344,794
Additions
-
-
82
1,561
5,921
-
7,564
Disposals
-
-
(2,298)
(1,647)
(1,482)
-
(5,427)
Transfer from WIP
-
-
-
-
3,661
(3,661)
-
Revaluation loss
(12,691)
-
-
-
-
-
(12,691)
At 1 January 2023
114,209
12,772
87,183
40,801
79,275
-
334,240
Additions
-
-
-
793
294
-
1,087
Disposals
-
-
-
-
(99)
-
(99)
Revaluation loss
(12,690)
-
-
-
-
-
(12,690)
Adjustment
-
-
-
136
(136)
-
-
At 31 December 2023
101,519
12,772
87,183
41,730
79,334
-
322,538
Comprising:
At valuation
101,519
-
-
-
-
-
101,519
At cost
-
12,772
87,183
41,730
79,334
-
221,019
Cost or valuation
101,519
12,772
87,183
41,730
79,334
-
322,538
DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 2022
-
9,047
80,042
31,347
52,978
-
173,414
Charge for the year
2,778
3,193
2,561
6,472
11,209
-
26,213
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
(2,298)
(705)
(1,442)
-
(4,445)
Reversal on 
revaluation
(2,778)
-
-
-
-
-
(2,778)
At 1 January 2023
-
12,240
80,305
37,114
62,745
-
192,404
Charge for the year
2,500
532
2,487
2,494
9,327
-
17,340
Eliminated on disposal
-
-
-
-
(99)
-
(99)
Reversal on 
revaluation
(2,500)
-
-
-
-
-
(2,500)
At 31 December 2023
-
12,772
82,792
39,608
71,973
-
207,145
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2023
101,519
-
4,391
2,122
7,361
-
115,393
At 31 December 2022
114,209
532
6,878
3,687
16,530
-
141,836
Property, plant and equipment with a cost of Sh 117.5 million (2022: Sh 112.6 million) at the reporting date were 
fully depreciated.
The building has been stated at its revalued amount, being the fair value at 31 December 2023 less any subsequent 
depreciation. The revaluation was done on the basis of net income approach reflecting the highest and best use by 
Kenstate Valuers Limited, an independent registered valuer.
12 	PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED) – Company
109
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
13	INVESTMENT PROPERTY - GROUP AND COMPANY
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
VALUATION
At 1 January
305,791
313,100
Revaluation loss
(17,310)
(7,309)
At 31 December
288,481
305,791
The fair value of the Group’s investment property at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 has been arrived at 
on the basis of a valuation carried out at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 by Kenstate Valuers Limited and 
Tysons Limited respectively, both independent registered valuers. The fair value was adjusted for in the books of the 
Group and Company. The fair value was determined based on the net income approach. In estimating the fair value of 
the properties, the highest and best use of the properties is their current use. The group applies capitalisation rate and 
rental income as the unobservable inputs in the valuation of its properties. There were no transfers between any levels 
in the fair valuation hierarchy during the year.
The following table gives information about how the fair values of these non-financial assets are determined (in 
particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used).
Sh’000
Fair value 
hierarchy
Valuation 
technique(s) and 
key inputs
Significant unobservable 
inputs
Relationship of 
unobservable inputs 
to fair value
At 31 December 2023
Buildings
101,519
Level 3
Income 
capitalization 
method - Highest 
and best use
Capitalisation rate, 
taking into account the 
capitalisation of rental 
income potential, nature of 
the property, and prevailing 
market condition, of 8% 
A slight increase in 
the capitalisation rate 
used would result in 
a significant decrease 
in fair value, and vice 
versa
Investment property
288,481
Level 3
Total
390,000
At 31 December 2022
Buildings
114,209
Level 3
Income 
capitalization 
method - Highest 
and best use
Capitalisation rate, 
taking into account the 
capitalisation of rental 
income potential, nature of 
the property, and prevailing 
market condition, of 8%
A slight increase in 
the capitalisation rate 
used would result in 
a significant decrease 
in fair value, and vice 
versa
Investment property
305,791
Level 3
Total
420,000
110
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
14 	INTANGIBLE ASSETS - GROUP AND COMPANY
Automated 
trading
system 
software
Other 
software
Broker back 
office
software
Bond 
software 
license
Derivatives 
software
WIP
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
COST
At 1 January 2022
80,079
37,078
77,951
38,191
54,338
315
287,952
Additions
211
2,910
-
-
-
2,080
5,201
Disposals
-
(1,257)
-
-
-
-
(1,257)
At 1 January 2023
80,290
38,731
77,951
38,191
54,338
2,395
291,896
Additions
-
16,027
-
-
-
3,834
19,861
Transfer from WIP
-
2,395
-
-
-
(2,395)
-
At 31 December 2023
80,290
57,153
77,951
38,191
54,338
3,834
311,757
AMORTISATION
At 1 January 2022
17,333
26,614
66,163
38,191
13,434
-
161,735
Amortisation for the 
year 
8,027
4,466
4,371
-
5,434
-
22,298
Eliminated on disposal
-
(497)
-
-
-
-
(497)
At 1 January 2023
25,360
30,583
70,534
38,191
18,868
-
183,536
Amortisation for the 
year 
8,029
5,029
1,681
-
5,434
-
20,173
At 31 December 2023
33,389
35,612
72,215
38,191
24,302
-
203,709
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 December 2023
46,901
21,541
5,736
-
30,036
3,834
108,048
At 31 December 2022
54,930
8,148
7,417
-
35,470
2,395
108,360
Intangible assets with a cost of Sh 120.6 million (2022: Sh 53.9 million) at the reporting date were fully amortised.
The WIP at the end of the year comprises work done on BBO enhancement of Sh 3.834 million.
Key intangibles not fully amortised in the year includes: Automated Trading System (ATS) costs of Sh 46.9 million 
(remaining useful life of 5.7 years), other software costs of Sh 2.4 million (remaining useful life of 4.8 years), Broker 
Back Office (BBO) software costs of Sh 5.7 million (remaining useful life of 2.5 years) and derivatives software cost of Sh 
30 million (remaining useful life of 5.5 years).
111
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
15	INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE 
The investment in associate represents an investment in Central Depository and Settlement Corporation Limited (CDSC). 
The Group held an ownership percentage of 40.5% at 31 December 2023 (2022: 40.5%). The proportion of the voting 
rights in the associate held by the Company does not differ from the proportion of ordinary shares held. 
a)	 Details of the associate at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Country of incorporation 
and operation
Number of shares held by NSE @ Sh 100 
per share
Proportion of ownership interest and 
voting power held by NSE
2023
2022
2023
2022
Group
CDSC
Kenya
708,750
708,750
40.5%
40.5%
Company
CDSC
Kenya
393,750
393,750
22.5%
22.5%
The principal activity of the associate is provision of automated clearing, delivery and settlement facilities in respect 
of transactions carried out at the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC.
The Group’s shareholding in AKS Nominees Ltd is 94.3% (2022: 88.8%) as disclosed in note 16. AKS Nominees holds 
an 18% shareholding in the ordinary shares of the CDSC in 2023 (2022: 18%).
b)	 The movement in the balance is as follows:
Group
Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
At start of year 
188,275
236,752
85,739
112,619
Share of loss for the year (note 15 
(e))
(19,429)
(46,544)
(10,794)
(25,806)
Share of other comprehensive loss
for the year (note 15(e))
(2,695)
(1,933)
(1,497)
(1,074)
At end of year
166,151
188,275
73,448
85,739
112
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
c)	 Summarised financial information in respect of the associate is set out below:
Group
Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Non current assets
305,133
344,738
305,133
344,738
Current assets
148,975
146,822
148,975
146,822
Total assets
454,108
491,560
454,108
491,560
Non current labilities
(42,065)
(53,207)
(42,065)
(53,207)
Current liabilities
(85,608)
(57,290)
(85,608)
(57,290)
Total liabilities 
(127,673)
(110,497)
(127,673)
(110,497)
Net assets
326,435
381,063
326,435
381,063
Group’s share of net assets of associate
(note 15 (d))
132,207
154,331
73,448
85,739
Total revenue for the year
207,524
241,422
207,524
241,422
Other comprehensive loss for the year
(6,654)
(108,083)
(6,654)
(108,083)
Total comprehensive loss for the year
(54,627)
(112,855)
(54,627)
(112,855)
d) Reconciliation of share of net assets of 
associate to investment in associate
Share of net assets (note 15(c))
132,207
154,331
73,448
85,739
Goodwill on acquisition of AKS Nominees 
33,944
33,944
-
-
Balance on statement of financial position
166,151
188,275
73,448
85,739
15	INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE (CONTINUED)
113
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Group
Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
e)	 Share of loss of associate:
Company
Being the direct shareholding at 22.5% (2022 – 22.5%)
Share of loss of associate 
(10,794)
(24,202)
(10,794)
(24,202)
Adjustment of share of gain to associate on sale of 
subsidiary
-
(1,604)
-
(1,604)
Share of other comprehensive loss 
(1,497)
(1,074)
(1,497)
(1,074)
(12,291)
(26,880)
(12,291)
(26,880)
Group
Being the direct shareholding at 22.5% (2022: 22.5%) 
(as computed for Company above) and the indirect 
shareholding at 18% from the acquisition date (2022 – 
18%)
Indirect shareholding at 18% (2022 – 18%)
Share of loss of associate 
(8,635)
(19,455)
-
-
Adjustment of share of gain to associate on sale of 
subsidiary
-
(1,283)
-
-
Share of other comprehensive loss 
(1,198)
(859)
-
-
(9,833)
(21,597)
-
-
Total group share of loss and OCI at 40.5% (2022 – 
40.5%)
Total share of loss of associate 
(19,429)
(46,544)
(10,794)
(25,806)
Total share of other comprehensive loss 
(2,695)
 (1,933)
(1,497)
(1,074)
(22,124)
(48,477)
(12,291)
(26,880)
15	INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE (CONTINUED)
114
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
16	INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES - COMPANY
Holding
Principal activity
 2023
2022
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Investment in subsidiaries
Investment in NSE Clear Limited (note a)
Clearing house 
100%
 100%
20,000
20,000
Investment in AKS Nominees Ltd (note b)
Investment
94.3%
88.8%
118,899
111,899
138,899
131,899
Investment in structured entities (note c):
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
Settlement guarantee fund
100,000
100,000
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
Investor protection fund
10,000
10,000
110,000
110,000
248,899
241,899
a)	 Investment in subsidiary – NSE Clear Limited
NSE Clear Limited was incorporated as a limited liability company on 4 February 2014 under the Companies Act 
(Cap. 486) with a share capital of Kenya Shillings One Hundred Thousand (Sh 100,000) divided into One Hundred 
(100) ordinary shares of Kenya Shillings One Thousand (Sh 1,000) each. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange PLC. The subsidiary is domiciled in Kenya.
The principal objectives of the subsidiary are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to provide 
clearing and settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a securities 
exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative securities transactions and to carry out all activities that 
pertain to a clearing house.
b)	 Investment in subsidiary – AKS Nominees Ltd
The Group shareholding in AKS Nominees Ltd (AKS) is 94.3% (2022: 88.8%) for a total consideration paid to date 
of Sh 119 million (2022 – Sh 112 million). AKS holds an 18% shareholding in the ordinary shares of the CDSC in 
2023 (2022 – 18%).
The principal activity of the subsidiary is holding equity shares in CDSC in trust for its members who are authorised 
to operate as stockbrokers and investment banks in the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE).
c)	 Investment in structured entities
The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under 
the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 and the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange (NSE) Derivatives Rules. The main purpose of the Settlement Guarantee Fund is to settle specified 
claims by derivatives members arising out of transactions in derivative securities.
The NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under 
the Trustee Act (Cap167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015, the NSE Investor 
Protection Fund Rules and the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) Compensation Rules and Procedures. The 
main purpose for the Investor Protection Fund is to satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of 
non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members or losses incurred by reason of the default of 
trading members.
115
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
d)	 Non-controlling interest (NCI)
The total NCI at 31 December 2023 is Sh 6,860,000 (2022: Sh 17,366,000) all of which relates to AKS Nominees 
Limited at 6% shareholding (2022: 11%).
The following table summarises the financial information relating to the Group’s company that has significant non-
controlling interest.
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Total assets
158,232
158,714
Total liabilities
(18,152)
(1,202)
Net assets
140,080
157,512
Revenue
1,872
1,567
Profit before tax
581
(889)
Taxation
(562)
(470)
Total comprehensive income
19
(1,359)
Reconciliation of NCI
Movement in the non-controlling interest is as follows:
At start of the year
17,366
17,518
NCI’s share of profit 
1
(152)
Reduction in NCI on increase in shareholding
(9,523)
-
2023 dividend declared
(984)
-
At end of the year
6,860
17,366
16	INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES - COMPANY (CONTINUED)
116
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
17	INVESTMENT IN NSE LLP
The NSE Limited Liability Partnership (NSE LLP) was established under the Kenyan Limited Liability Partnerships Act, 
2011 on 22 September 2020. The principal activity is to run the recently launched Unquoted Securities Platform. The 
Partnership has a management committee that oversees its day-to-day activities. The management committee of the 
Partnership reports to the Board of Directors of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc. As per the Partnership Deed, Nairobi 
Securities Exchange Plc shall contribute 100% of the capital of the NSE Limited Liability Partnership.
The following table summarises the financial information relating to the NSE LLP:
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Total assets
10,040
7,374
Total liabilities
(2,598)
(1,532)
Net assets
7,442
5,842
Revenue
4,777
6,845
Profit for the year
1,716
4,029
Partners’ account
Movement in the partners’ account is as follows:
At start of the year
5,842
-
Profit for the year
1,716
4,029
Profit for the 16 months to 31 December 2021
-
3,125
1,716
7,154
Withdrawals*
(116)
(1,312)
At end of the year
7,442
5,842
*Withdrawals relate to the tax paid on instalment taxes by NSE LLP or withholding tax deducted directly at source on 
interest income earned by NSE LLP. Since tax on the NSE LLP profit is charged to and paid by the Partners, then this 
amount is deducted against the Partners’ accounts.
117
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
18	FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME - QUOTED EQUITY 
INSTRUMENTS – GROUP AND COMPANY
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
At start of year
106,829
75,333
Fair value gain through other comprehensive income
26,292
31,496
At end of year
133,121
106,829
Quoted ordinary shares at fair value through other comprehensive income are classified as non-current assets. At the 
year end, these are valued at the closing market share price at the Dar-Es-Salaam stock exchange on the last day of 
trading of the year. 
19	LONG-TERM RESTRICTED INVESTMENTS – GROUP 
Fixed deposit and interest capitalized held with the Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited and maturing within 180 days 
in the name of:
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
NSE Clear Limited
20,026
20,011
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund
112,239
113,954
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
11,123
11,389
143,388
145,354
Less: Expected Credit Losses (note 36 (b)(ii))
(6)
(40)
143,382
145,314
The restricted investments relate to the seed capital contributions by the NSE on 19 August 2015 to the NSE Clear 
Limited, the NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) of 
Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million and Sh 10 million respectively towards their operations. The funds are invested in a fixed 
deposit on a rolling basis.
20	GOVERNMENT SECURITIES – GROUP AND COMPANY
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
a)	
At amortised cost – maturing over one year
Treasury bonds held at amortised cost
201,431
201,431
Less: Expected Credit Losses (note 36 (b)(ii))
(3,163)
(2,753)
Unamortised balance
3,705
3,937
201,973
202,615
The weighted average effective interest rate on the treasury bonds at amortised cost for the year ended 31 
December 2023 was 13.7% (2022: 13.7%).
118
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
b)	
At fair value through profit or loss – maturing over one year
Treasury bonds held for trading
247,883
265,971
Less: Expected Credit Losses (note 36 (b)(ii))
-
(3,562)
Fair value provisions 
(6,559)
(6,034)
241,324
256,375
The weighted average effective interest rate on the treasury bonds at fair value through profit or loss for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 was 11.7% (2022: 8.2%). 
21	DEFERRED TAX
Deferred income tax is calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method using a principal tax rate of 
30% (2022: 30%) The net deferred tax asset is attributable to the following items:
 Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Accelerated capital allowances 
3,875
2,982
3,875
2,982
Straight-lined rental income
(414)
(660)
(414)
(660)
Unrealized foreign exchange gain
(326)
782
(326)
782
Leave provision
1,306
798
1,306
798
Tax losses
5,855
5,968
-
-
Provision for expected credit losses
2,926
4,232
2,925
4,225
Fair value loss on bond instruments at FVTPL
2,237
2,306
2,237
2,306
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized
(5,855)
(5,970)
-
-
Treasury bond amortization
643
-
643
-
10,247
10,438
10,246
10,433
The movement in the deferred income tax asset is as 
follows:
At start of year
10,438
(1,137)
10,433
(1,719)
(Charge)/credit to profit or loss (note 11 (a))
(191)
11,969
(187)
12,152
Potential deferred tax asset not recognized (note 11 (a))
(791)
(680)
-
-
Prior year deferred tax under provision (note 11 (a))
791
286
-
-
At end of year
10,247
10,438
10,246
10,433
The deferred tax asset has been recognised in the year as it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences can be utilised. There are no tax laws which restrict the sources of taxable profits 
against which the Group may make deductions on the reversal of that deductible temporary difference.
The potential deferred tax asset not recognized relates to the tax losses incurred by the subsidiaries and Funds as it is 
not probable that taxable profit will be available in the short term against which the unused tax losses or unused tax 
credits can be utilized.
20	GOVERNMENT SECURITIES - GROUP AND COMPANY (CONTINUED)
119
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
22	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
a)	
Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables
21,722
26,201
21,722
26,201
Prepayments and deposits
40,236
29,582
40,236
29,582
Staff loans and advances
17,625
12,374
17,625
12,374
Due from African Securities Exchange Association
11,524
1,130
11,524
1,130
Other receivables*
14,958
11,711
14,958
10,946
Due from trading member on the market making 
fund
6,233
8,026
6,233
8,026
Amount due from associate (note 33 (e))
6,794
7,140
6,794
7,140
Clearing balances
758
1,550
-
-
119,850
97,714
119,092
95,399
Less: Expected Credit Losses (note (b))
(6,080)
(6,225)
(6,080)
(5,468)
113,770
91,489
113,012
89,931
b)	
Expected Credit Losses
Movements in Expected Credit
Losses were as follows:
At start of the year
6,225
2,868
5,468
2,868
Charge in the year
612
3,357
612
2,600
Recovered in the year
(757)
-
-
-
At end of year (note (a)) and note (36 (b)(ii))
6,080
6,225
6,080
5,468
* Other receivable includes reverse VAT on imported services of Sh 6.48 million and balances due from data vendors.
120
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
23	CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM RESTRICTED CASH & INVESTMENTS
 Group
Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Sh’000
 Sh’000 
Call deposits
64,439
83,138
42,683
83,138
Fixed deposits
337,127
290,695
330,348
262,749
Total short-term deposits (note 24)
401,566
373,833
373,031
345,887
Bank and cash balances
6,024
10,720
4,407
9,976
Total bank and cash balances and deposits 
407,590
384,553
377,438
355,863
Less: Expected Credit Losses (note 36 (b)(ii)):
Call and fixed deposits (note 24)
(469)
(2,193)
(469)
(2,175)
Bank balances
(39)
(129)
(39)
(127)
407,082
382,231
376,930
353,561
Split into:
Short-term restricted investments (note 38)
317,171
296,470
317,171
296,470
Cash and cash equivalents
89,911
78,797
59,759
57,091
Fixed deposits – maturity of three months to
six months
-
6,964
-
-
407,082
382,231
376,930
353,561
For purposes of statement of cashflows, cash and cash 
equivalents is made up as follows:
Total cash and bank balances and short term restricted 
cash and investments
407,082
382,231
376,930
353,561
Less: fixed deposit – maturity over three months  
(note 24)
(80,576)
(130,557)
(80,576)
(123,593)
Less interest earned not received 
(7,700)
(1,440)
(7,041)
(1,280)
318,806
250,234
289,313
228,688
 
121
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
24	SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Maturing within three months:
Fixed deposits
256,289
158,166
249,510
137,189
Call deposits
64,439
83,138
42,683
83,138
320,728
241,304
292,193
220,327
Less: Expected Credit Losses
(207)
(221)
(207)
(208)
320,521
241,083
291,986
220,119
Maturing after three months to six months:
Fixed deposits
80,838
132,529
80,838
125,560
Less: Expected Credit Losses
(262)
(1,972)
(262)
(1,967)
80,576
130,557
80,576
123,593
Gross total - call and fixed deposits (note 23)
401,566
373,833
373,031
345,887
Total Expected Credit Losses (note 23)
(469)
(2,193)
(469)
(2,175)
Net total - call and fixed deposits
401,097
371,640
372,562
343,712
The deposits are classified and measured at amortised cost. The weighted average effective interest rate on the deposits 
as at 31 December 2023 was 9.8% (2022: 8.1%).
25	SHARE CAPITAL
Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Authorised share capital:
At start and end of year:
375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
1,500,000
Issued and fully paid up:
At start of the year:
260,391,721 ordinary shares (2022 – 260,004,320 
ordinary shares) of Sh 4 each
1,041,567
1,040,017
1,041,567
1,040,017
Issue of 60,680 shares to the employees share ownership 
plan (2022 – 387,401 shares) of Sh 4.00 each (note 27)
243
1,550
243
1,550
At end of year
260,452,401 ordinary shares (2022 - 260,391,721 
ordinary shares) of Sh 4 each
1,041,810
1,041,567
1,041,810
1,041,567
122
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
26	SHARE PREMIUM
 Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
At start of the year:
279,459
278,579
279,459
278,579
Issue of shares at a premium to the employees share 
ownership plan (note 27):
30
880
30
880
At end of year
279,489
279,459
279,489
279,459
The Board approved the allotment and issue of 60,680 ordinary shares (2022 – 387,401) at a market price of Sh 4.49 
(2022 - Sh 6.27) to the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP). A share premium of Sh 30,000 (2022 - Sh 880,000) has 
been recognised in share premium in the year in respect of these shares.
27	EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN (ESOP)
During the year ended 31 December 2023, the activities in the ESOP were as follows: 
 Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
Number of units
Units in the ESOP – at start of year 
830,075
503,529
830,075
503,529
Units granted during the year 
60,680
387,401
60,680
387,401
Vested units sold during the year
-
(31,715)
-
(31,715)
Vested units transferred to unitholder
-
(29,140)
-
(29,140)
890,755
830,075
890,755
830,075
Total units vested in the year
223,026
127,854
223,026
127,854
Market price of units at date of grant - Sh 
5.62
7.84
5.62
7.84
Purchase price – Sh
4.49
6.27
4.49
6.27
Issue of units to ESOP at par – Sh’000 (note 25)
243
1,550
243
1,550
Issue of units to ESOP at premium – Sh’000 (note 26)
30
880
30
880
273
2,430
273
2,430
123
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
28	SETTLEMENT GUARANTEE FUND -MEMBER’S CONTRIBUTIONS
  Group
  Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited
11,750
11,750
-
-
The contribution was received in cash in 2019. This is a refundable contribution made by clearing members to the 
Settlement Guarantee Fund to cover any claims arising from non-settlement of margins. Each clearing member’s 
contribution is currently at Sh 23.5 million. The balance of Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited contributions of Sh 11.75 
million was provided through a bank guarantee of the same amount issued by KCB Bank Kenya Limited on 24th July 2023.
29	TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
 Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
a)	
Non-current portion
Tenant deposits
2,215
2,215
2,215
2,215
b)	
Current portion
Accrued expenses
44,286
27,974
36,238
22,468
Trade payables
6,531
12,849
6,531
12,849
Other payables*
12,525
14,126
12,525
14,126
Staff leave provision
4,352
2,660
4,352
2,660
Amount payable to Capital Markets Authority
4,471
2,249
4,471
2,249
Amount payable to associate (note 33(e))
-
95
-
95
Annual listing fees paid in advance 
1,500
1,500
1,500
1,500
Clearing balances
682
1,520
-
-
Contributions due to former trading members
600
600
-
-
74,947
63,573
65,617
55,947
* Other payables includes amounts paid in advance on broker back office fees, salary deductions and other 
miscellaneous payables due. 
124
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
30	DIVIDENDS PAYABLE
The dividends payable represent the first and final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 up to 31 December 
2023 not paid at year end for former brokers now under statutory management. The movement in dividends payable 
during the year was as follows: -
 Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
At start of year
57,109
67,070
57,109
66,444
Declared amount for prior years
52,078
130,002
52,078
130,002
2023 dividend declared by AKS Nominees Limited
984
-
-
-
Special dividend declared in the year
-
104,002
-
104,002
Paid during the year
(49,950)
(243,965)
(49,950)
(243,339)
At end of year
60,221
57,109
59,237
57,109
31	CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Profit before income tax
42,326
37,799
64,928
61,112
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 12)
17,547
26,214
17,340
26,213
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 14)
20,173
22,298
20,173
22,298
Share of loss of associate (note 15 (b)) 
19,429
46,544
10,794
25,806
Interest income (note 9)
(120,950)
(104,376)
(101,562)
(90,300)
Interest earned not received 
2,016
2,523
2,018
2,359
(Gain)/loss on disposal of equipment 
(6)
644
(6)
644
Change in net assets of NSE LLP (note 17)
-
-
(1,716)
(5,842)
Issue of ESOP shares (note 27)
273
2,430
273
2,430
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes
(4,486)
(1,387)
(4,486)
(1,387)
Revaluation loss on property (note 12 and 13)
27,500
17,222
27,500
17,222
(38,504)
12,112
(29,672)
(557)
Working capital changes:
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables
(22,281)
904
(23,081)
(522)
Increase in trade and other payables
11,373
18,483
9,670
17,662
Decrease in tenant deposits
-
(1)
-
(1)
Movement in related party balances
-
-
(17,263)
75
Increase in trading members contributions
-
200
-
-
Movement in ECL and other provisions
(6,461)
(6,104)
(4,100)
(3,639)
(17,369)
13,482
(34,774)
13,575
Cash (used in)/generated from operations
(13,547)
63,393
482
74,130
125
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
32	EARNINGS PER SHARE - BASIC AND DILUTED
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the net profit per year to owners of the Group by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Group
Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
Net profit attributable to owners of the Group (Sh’000)
18,403
13,876
44,446
39,321
Number of shares at 31 December (in thousands)
260,452
260,391
260,452
260,391
Basic and diluted earnings per share – Sh
0.07
0.05
0.17
0.15
33	 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The following transactions were carried out by the Group and Company with related parties at market rates.
 Group
 Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
a)	
Directors’ emoluments
Non – executive
Directors fees and sitting allowances (including 
committees)
16,173
15,814
15,916
15,557
Executive
31,749
31,475
31,749
31,475
Total directors’ remuneration
47,922
47,289
47,665
47,032
Group and Company
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
b)	
Key management compensation
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits
71,659
71,993
Other long term benefits
6,575
6,571
78,234
78,564
126
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
c)	 Transactions with shareholders
The Group and Company are related to various parties by virtue of common shareholding. The shareholders exercise 
significant influence over the operations of the exchange. As at 31 December 2023, the Group had 9 stockbrokers 
(2022: 9) and 6 licensed investment banks (2022: 6) who are shareholders. The transactions carried out during the 
year with the brokers and investment banks who are related parties by virtue of shareholding are disclosed below:
The Group charges investors, through the brokers, a transaction levy of 0.12% (31 December 2022: 0.12%) of the 
value of equity securities traded at the Exchange. During the 12 months period ended 31 December 2023, the total 
turnover was Sh 57,094 million (31 December 2022: Sh 89,758 million) resulting in a transaction levy of Sh 69 million 
(31 December 2022: Sh 108 million). NSE also charges investors, through brokers, a transaction levy of 0.0035% (31 
December 2022 – 0.0035%) of the value of fixed income securities traded at the Exchange. The turnover for fixed 
income securities for the 12 months period ended 31 December 2023 was Sh 810 billion (31 December 2022: Sh 979 
billion), resulting in transaction levy of Sh 28 million (31 December 2022: Sh 34 million).
Group
Company
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Transaction levy on - equity securities
68,513
107,710
68,513
107,710
Transaction levy on - fixed income securities
28,367
34,272
28,367
34,272
Broker back office subscriptions
17,280
15,840
17,280
15,840
Data fee
1,917
1,778
1,917
1,778
Training
385
626
385
626
NOMAD fee
150
150
150
150
Annual membership fee
1,100
1,800
1,100
1,800
Ibuka
-
40
-
40
117,712
162,216
117,712
162,216
33	RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
127
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
d)	 Transactions with companies related to directors 
The Company’s memorandum and articles of association requires that trading participants and listed companies to 
have two representatives each on the Board. The transactions listed below were carried out during the period with 
companies who the aforementioned representatives are directors. 
Group and Company
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
i)	
Stockbrokers and investment bank representatives
Transaction levy on - equity securities
18,861
31,343
Transaction levy on - fixed income securities
11,117
7,717
Broker back office subscriptions
2,880
2,880
Training
40
40
NOMAD fees
50
50
Annual fee
100
400
33,048
42,430
ii)	
Listed companies related to directors
Annual listing fees
-
4,500
Purchase of data
-
213
Training
-
210
-
4,923
e)	 Transactions with associate
During the year, transactions with CDSC Ltd were as follows:-
Transaction levy on fixed income securities
20,096
27,451
Net amounts receivable from associate (note 22 (a)) 
6,794
7,140
Net amounts payable to associate (note 29 (b))
-
(95)
f)	 Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities
i)	
Due from related party 
NSE Clear Limited (note 33 (f) (ii))
9,442
9,290
NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (note 33 (f) (iv))
4,260
3,623
NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (note 33 (f) (iii))
98
-
AKS Nominees Limited (note 33 (f) (vi))
16,467
-
30,267
12,913
Due to NSE LLP (note 33 (f) (v))
166
75
33	 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
128
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Group and Company
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
33	RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
f)	 Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities (Continued)
ii)	
During the year, transactions with NSE Clear Limited were as follows:
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Audit and tax fees
886
836
Board allowances
314
314
Income tax
-
389
CMA fees
500
500
Management fees
366
198
Other expenses
43
121
2,109
2,358
Amounts due from NSE Clear Limited
9,442
9,290
iii)	 During the year, transactions with NSE Derivatives Investor Protection 
Fund (IPF) were as follows: 
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Trustee allowances 
314
314
Audit and tax fees
474
445
Income tax
-
265
Management fees
214
112
CMA fees
500
500
Other expenses
17
77
1,519
1,713
IPF contributions received by the company
-
400
Amounts due to NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund
98
-
iv)	 During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Settlement  
Guarantee Fund (SGF) were as follows:
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Income tax
1,233
968
Trustee allowances
314
314
Audit and tax fees
474
445
CMA fees
500
500
Other expenses
15
160
2,536
2,387
Management fees
2,103
1,184
Distribution of surplus to NSE
6,867
5,691
Amounts due from the NSE Derivatives SGF
4,260
3,623
129
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Group and Company
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
33
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
f)	 Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities (Continued)
v)	
During the period, transactions with NSE LLP were as follows:
Expenses paid by the Company relating to:
Income tax
-
263
Share of USP fees
258
2,912
Audit and tax fees
366
372
Consultancy fees
1,058
-
Purchasing of franking machine
989
-
Other expenses
15
248
2,686
3,795
Surplus for the year to the NSE
1,716
4,029
Amounts due to the NSE LLP
166
75
vi)	 During the period, transactions with AKS Nominees Limited 
were as follows:
Dividend income declared in the year
16,467
-
Amounts due from AKS Nominees Limited
16,467
-
g)	 Loans and advances to Executive Director 
At start of year
4,953
3,155
Advances made in the year
2,193
1,509
Loan made in the year
3,796
5,992
Repayments in the year
(9,885)
(5,703)
At end of year
1,057
4,953
Interest income earned on loan
306
348
The balances are included in note 22 (a) under staff loans and advances. The repayment period for the loans and 
advances are one year and three months respectively. Interest on the loans was at 15% p.a (2022 – 9% p.a). All 
terms are as per company policy.
130
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
34	OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY)
The Group and Company as a lessor:
Lease rental income earned during the year was Sh 6.5 million (2022: Sh 6.3 million). At the end of the reporting period 
the Group and Company had existing contracts with tenants for the following minimum lease payments:
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Receivable within 1 year
9,402
7,438
Receivable after 1 year but within 5 years
18,056
18,488
27,458
25,926
Rental income receivable relates to the lease rent receivable on the leased areas on the investment property.
35	CAPITAL COMMITMENTS - GROUP AND COMPANY
Commitments at the end of the reporting period for which no provision had been made in these financial statements:
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Authorised but not yet contracted for
233,510
102,240
The capital commitments relate mainly to system infrastructure and support on the expected upgrade of the Automated 
Trading System, Broker Back Office system and related hardware.
36	RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES 
The main business risks faced by the Group and the Company in respect of its principal non-derivative financial instruments 
are market risk including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The directors review 
and determine policies for managing these risks.
(a)	Market risk 
The Group and the Company maintains a conservative policy regarding currency and interest rate risks and does not 
engage in speculation in the markets. In addition, the Group and the Company do not speculate or trade in derivative 
financial instruments.
(i)	 Interest rate risk (Group and Company) 
The Group and Company’s investment in interest earning investments are both at amortised cost and fair value 
through profit or loss. These comprise of treasury bonds and bank deposits which are at fixed interest rates 
hence not exposed to interest rate risk.
The fixed deposits are short-term in nature and the fair value risk is considered minimal. Treasury bonds held at 
fair value through profit and loss carry a fair value risk as these are long term. 
The Group and Company’s investments are at fixed interest rates and are therefore not exposed to interest rate 
risk for both 2023 and 2022.
131
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
(ii)	Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company undertake certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, 
exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. Exchange rate exposures are however minimal as these only 
relate to income from data and interest income.
At 31 December, the carrying amounts of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities which 
were all held in US Dollar currency are as follows:
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Assets
Cash and bank balances
826
1,246
Other receivables
629
2,523
Fixed deposit
69,467
42,472
70,922
46,241
Liabilities
Accrued expenses
(7,759)
(6,521)
Net position
63,163
39,720
At 31 December 2023, if the Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US Dollar with all other 
variables held constant, the impact on pretax profit for the period would have been Sh  6,316,000 (2022: 
Sh 3,972,000) higher/lower mainly as a result of translation of US dollar denominated balances.
(iii)	 Price risk (Group and Company)
The Group and Company hold investments that would be subject to price risk.
At 31 December, the fair value of the investments that are subject to price risk are as follows:
2023
2022
 Sh’000 
 Sh’000 
Quoted equity instrument
133,121
106,829
At 31 December 2023, if the price had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the market share price, the 
impact on other comprehensive income through revaluation reserve would have been Sh 13,312,000 (2022 – 
Sh 10,683,000).
36	RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(a)	Market risk (Continued)
132
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b)	Credit risk (Group and Company)
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss. 
Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing 
to discharge an obligation. Credit risk mainly arises from financial assets and is managed on a Group-wide basis.
Credit risk on financial assets with banking institutions is managed by dealing with institutions with good credit 
ratings and placing limits on deposits that can be held in one institution.
Credit risk on trade receivables is managed by ensuring that credit is extended to customers with an established 
credit history. The credit history is determined by taking into account the financial position, past experience and 
other relevant factors. Credit is managed by setting a credit limit and credit period for each customer. The utilization 
of the credit limits and the credit period is monitored by management on a monthly basis.
In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly, the Group compares the risk of 
default occurring on the financial asset as at the reporting date with the risk of default occurring on that financial 
asset as at the date of initial recognition. In doing so, the Group considers reasonable and supportable information 
that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition and that is available without undue 
cost or effort. There is a rebuttable assumption that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly 
since initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due.
For this purpose, default is defined as having occurred if the debtor is in breach of contractual obligations, or if 
information is available internally or externally that suggests that the debtor is unlikely to be able to meet its 
obligations. However, there is a rebuttable assumption that that default does not occur later than when a financial 
asset is 90 days past due.
The Group and Company do not hold collateral or security to mitigate credit risk.
The amount that best represents the Group and Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 
2023 and 2022 is made up as follows:
i)	 The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet 
date was as follows:
12 – month 
expected 
credit losses
 Lifetime expected  credit losses
Total
 (a) 
(b)
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2023
Government securities
446,460
-
-
446,460
Long-term restricted investments
143,388
-
-
143,388
Trade receivables
19,887
1,835
-
21,722
Other receivables
54,501
3,391
-
57,892
Short-term restricted cash and investments
317,171
-
-
317,171
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
90,419
-
-
90,419
Gross carrying amount
1,071,826
5,226
-
1,077,052
Loss allowance
(4,531)
(5,226)
-
(9,757)
Exposure to credit risk
1,067,295
-
-
1,067,295
36	RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
133
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
12 – month 
expected 
credit losses
 Lifetime expected  credit losses
Total
 (a) 
(b)
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2022
Government securities
465,305
-
-
465,305
Long-term restricted investments
145,354
-
-
145,354
Trade receivables
24,772
1,462
-
26,234
Other receivables
37,984
3,947
-
41,931
Short-term restricted cash and investments
296,470
-
-
296,470
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
88,083
-
88,083
Gross carrying amount
1,057,968
5,409
-
1,063,377
Loss allowance
(9,493)
(5,409)
-
(14,902)
Exposure to credit risk
1,048,475
-
-
1,048,475
Company
At 31 December 2023
Government securities
446,460
-
-
446,460
Trade receivables
 19,887
1,835
-
21,722
Other receivables
53,743
3,391
-
57,134
Short-term restricted cash and investments
317,171
-
-
317,171
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
60,267
-
-
60,267
Gross carrying amount
897,528
5,226
-
902,754
Loss allowance
(4,525)
(5,226)
-
(9,751)
Exposure to credit risk
893,003
-
-
893,003
At 31 December 2022
Government securities
465,305
-
-
465,305
Trade receivables
24,739
1,462
-
26,201
Other receivables
36,426
3,190
-
39,616
Short-term restricted cash and investments
296,470
-
-
296,470
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits
59,393
-
-
59,393
Gross carrying amount
882,333
4,652
-
886,985
Loss allowance
(9,433)
(4,652)
-
(14,085)
Exposure to credit risk
872,900
-
-
872,900
36	 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b)	Credit risk (Group and Company) (Continued)
i)	 The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet 
date was as follows (Continued):
134
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Financial assets for which the loss allowance has been measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit 
losses have been analysed above based on their credit risk ratings as follows:
	» financial assets for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but that are not 
credit impaired
	» financial assets that are credit impaired at the balance sheet date
The above represents the worst-case scenario of credit exposure for both years.
ii)	 The loss allowance at end of each year relates to the following:
12-month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
credit losses
Total
(a)
  (b)
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2023
Government securities (note 20)
3,163
-
-
3,163
Long-term restricted investments (note 19)
6
-
-
6
Trade receivables (note 22 (b))
114
1,835
-
1,949
Other receivables (note 22 (b))
740
3,391
-
4,131
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits (note 23)
508
-
-
508
Total
4,531
5,226
-
9,757
At 31 December 2022
Government securities (note 20)
6,315
-
-
6,315
Long-term restricted investments (note 19)
40
-
-
40
Trade receivables (note 22 (b))
116
1,462
-
1,578
Other receivables (note 22 (b))
700
3,947
-
4,647
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits (note 23)
2,322
-
-
2,322
Total
9,493
5,409
-
14,902
Company
At 31 December 2023
Government securities (note 20)
3,163
-
-
3,163
Trade receivables (note 22 (b))
114
1,835
-
1,949
Other receivables (note 22 (b)))
740
3,391
-
4,131
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits (note 23)
508
-
-
508
Total
4,525
5,226
-
9,751
36	RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b)	Credit risk (Group and Company) (Continued)
135
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
12-month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
credit losses
Total
(a)
  (b)
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Company
At 31 December 2022
Government securities (note 20)
6,315
-
-
6,315
Trade receivables (note 22 (b))
116
1,462
-
1,578
Other receivables (note 22 (b))
700
3,190
-
3,890
Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits (note 23)
2,302
-
-
2,302
Total
9,433
4,652
-
14,085
iii)	 The changes in the loss allowance during the year were as follows: 
12-month 
expected 
credit losses
Lifetime expected
 credit losses
Total
 (a)
(b)
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
Year ended 31 December 2023
At start of year
9,493
5,409
-
14,902
Reversals in the year (note 7)
(4,962)
(183)
-
(5,145)
At end of year
4,531
5,226
-
9,757
Year ended 31 December 2022
At start of year
12,483
2,357
-
14,840
(Reversals)/additions in the year (note 7)
(2,990)
3,052
-
62
At end of year
9,493
5,409
-
14,902
Company
Year ended 31 December 2023
At start of year
9,433
4,652
-
14,085
(Reversals)/additions in the year (note 7)
(4,908)
574
-
(4,334)
At end of year
4,525
5,226
-
9,751
Year ended 31 December 2022
At start of year
10,799
2,357
-
13,156
(Reversals)/additions in the year (note 7)
(1,366)
2,295
-
929
At end of year
9,433
4,652
-
14,085
36	RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b)	Credit risk (Group and Company) (Continued)
ii)	 The loss allowance at end of each year relates to the following (Continued):
136
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
(c)	Liquidity risk – Group and Company
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash to meet the Group and Company’s obligations. 
The Group and Company manage this risk by maintaining adequate cash balances in the bank, banking facilities and 
by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. 
The table below analyses the Group and Company’s financial liabilities that will be settled on a net basis into 
relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the reporting period to the contractual maturity date. 
The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 
months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Up to 1 year
1 – 5 years
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group
At 31 December 2023
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,215
2,215
Trade and other payables
74,947
-
74,947
Dividends payable
60,221
-
60,221
Trading members’ contributions
2,200
-
2,200
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
-
11,750
11,750
137,368
13,965
151,333
At 31 December 2022
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,215
2,215
Trade and other payables
63,573
-
63,573
Dividends payable
57,109
-
57,109
Trading members’ contributions
2,000
-
2,000
Settlement Guarantee Fund members contributions
-
11,750
11,750
122,682
13,965
136,647
36	RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
137
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Up to 1 year
1 – 5 years
Total
Sh’000
Sh’000
Sh’000
Company
At 31 December 2023
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,215
2,215
Trade and other payables
65,617
-
65,617
Dividends payable
59,237
-
59,237
Due to NSE LLP
166
-
166
125,020
2,215
127,235
At 31 December 2022
Financial liabilities
Tenant deposits
-
2,215
2,215
Trade and other payables
55,947
-
55,947
Dividends payable
57,109
-
57,109
Due to NSE LLP
75
-
75
113,131
2,215
115,346
(d)	Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
IFRS 7 specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether inputs used in the valuation techniques of 
financial instruments are observable or unobservable. Financial instruments are grouped into 3 levels based on the 
degree to which fair value data / input is observable.
i.	
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active trading markets for 
identical assets or liabilities. 
ii.	 Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as a price) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Input data for this 
category is sourced mainly from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. 
iii.	 Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The external valuation of buildings and investment 
property has been performed using the net income approach.
The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are carried at fair value by level of 
the fair value hierarchy. 
36	RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c)	Liquidity risk – Group and Company (Continued)
138
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Group and Company
Level 1 Financial assets
Quoted equity instrument
133,121
106,829
Level 2 Financial assets
Government securities
241,324
256,375
There were no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 in the period and for level 3, there was no movement.
i.	
Level 1 – We have determined the fair value using quoted prices (unadjusted) from the Dar Es Salaam Stock 
Exchange.
ii.	 Level 2 – We have determined the fair value using the implied yield curve for the bond published by the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange. The fair value for the investment property is based on a valuation report.
37	CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group and Company manage its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising 
the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
At 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022, the Group and Company did not have any borrowings.
38	MINIMUM LIQUID NET-WORTH REQUIREMENTS (COMPANY)
2023
2022
Sh’000
Sh’000
Estimated twelve months operating costs
634,342
592,940
Required minimum liquid net-worth at one half of estimated  operating costs
317,171
296,470
Cash and cash equivalents and fixed deposits
317,171
296,470
To ensure that there is no significant risk that liabilities may not be met as they fall due, the Capital Markets (Derivatives 
Markets) Regulations, 2015 requires a futures exchange to maintain minimum liquid net-worth requirements equal to 
one half of the estimated gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve (12) month period or such other 
liquid net-worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. This has been met based on the above.
39	CONTINGENT LIABILITY
a.	 There was a suit against the NSE that was filed in July 2022 by 7 of the former employees of the NSE who were de-
clared redundant following the restructuring process. The Claimants alleged wrongful termination of their employ-
ment contracts. The suit was for Sh 40,256,024 plus general damages to be assessed by the Court. The judgement 
was delivered in April 2023 with damages of Sh 6,329,320 together with cost and interest. The judgement was 
settled in 2023 and expensed in the financial statements.
b.	 Two of the appellants in the case under (a) above appealed the judgement seeking further compensation of Sh 
12,251,984 plus general damages. The matter is pending in the Court of Appeal and has not been provided for in 
these financial statements. 
36	RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d)	Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (Continued)
139
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTICE is hereby given that the 70th Annual General Meeting of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc will be held by 
electronic communication, on Wednesday 29th May 2024 at 11.00 a.m. East Africa Time (EAT), to transact the 
following business: 
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To read the notice convening the meeting, table the proxies received and confirm the presence of a quorum.
2. To confirm and adopt the Minutes of the Annual General Meeting held on 30th May 2023.
3. To receive the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Report.
4. To receive, consider and, if thought fit, adopt the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31st December 2023 
together with the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
5. To approve a final dividend of Kshs. 0.16 per ordinary share, in respect of the Financial Year ended 31st December 2023 
and to approve the closure of the Register of Members at the close of business on 30th May 2024 for one day for the 
purpose of determining the qualifying members entitled to dividends. 
6. To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board as detailed in the Annual Report for the Financial Year ended 31st 
December 2023 and to authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration. 
7. Election of Directors:
(a) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Michael Turner (an Independent, 
Non-Executive director), having completed his nine-year term as a Director, will retire from the Board at the Annual 
General Meeting and hence a vacancy arises in this regard; 
(b) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Stephen Chege (a Non-Executive 
Director representing listed companies) retires by rotation, and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election; and
(c) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Donald Wangunyu (a Non-Executive 
Director representing Trading Participants) retires by rotation, and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
8. In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015, the following directors, being members 
of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, be appointed individually to continue to serve as members of the 
said Committee:
(a) Mr. John Niepold;
(b) Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto; and
(c) Ms. Isis Nyong’o Madison.
9. To reappoint Messrs Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Auditors of the Company, in accordance with the provisions of Section 
721(4) of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration for the ensuing Financial Year 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 724 of the Companies Act, 2015.
ANY OTHER BUSINESS
10. To consider any other business of which due notice has been received.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
KURIA K. WAITHAKA 
COMPANY SECRETARY & CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER 
DATE: 6th May 2024
NOTICE OF THE 70TH ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING

NOTICE OF THE 70TH ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)

NOTICE OF THE 70TH ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
In the case of a corporate body, the Proxy Form must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of a duly 
authorised officer or an attorney of such corporation. Any person appointed as a proxy should submit his/her mobile 
telephone number to the Company no later than forty-eight (48) hours before the time fixed for the meeting. Any proxy 
registration that is rejected will be communicated to the shareholder concerned no later than twenty four (24) hours after 
receipt to allow time to address any issues.
8. In accordance with the provisions of Article 96 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a person seeking election 
as a Director at the Annual General Meeting should deliver to the Company Secretary, through the Company’s physical, 
postal or email address ceoffice@nse.co.ke (copy to kwaithaka@nse.co.ke), by Tuesday 21st May 2024 at 1.00 p.m., 
a notice in writing signed by a Shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose 
such person for election and notice in writing signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected as per 
the nomination papers which may be accessed on the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke. The person so nominated will 
be required to send a Consent in the format also available on the Company’s website.
9. The AGM will be streamed live via a link which shall be provided to all shareholders who will have registered to participate 
in the general meeting. Duly registered shareholders  and proxies will receive a short message service (SMS/USSD) prompt 
on their registered mobile numbers, twenty four (24) hours prior to the AGM acting as a reminder of the AGM. A second 
SMS/USSD prompt shall be sent one hour ahead of the AGM, reminding duly registered shareholders and proxies that the 
AGM will begin in an hours’ time and providing a link to the live stream.
10. Duly registered shareholders and proxies may follow the proceedings of the AGM using the live stream platform and 
may access the agenda. Duly registered shareholders and proxies may vote (when prompted by the chairman) via 
the USSD prompts.
11. For shareholders residing outside Kenya and wishing to participate in the AGM, the following procedure shall apply:
(a) The Shareholder domiciled outside of Kenya will send an e-mail to Image Registrars NSEAgm@image.co.ke providing their 
details i.e. Name, National Identity Card/Passport Number, and Mobile telephone number requesting to be registered.
(b) Image Registrars shall register the shareholder and send them an email notification once registered.
(c) A notification (email and SMS) shall be sent to them as well as all shareholders an hour before the AGM notifying them 
about the AGM. This notification will also include the link to stream the proceedings.
(d) For voting, the shareholder will receive a verification Code via the Mobile telephone number provided.
(e) The link shared to stream the meeting contains a voting tab. Once the shareholder selects to vote, he/she shall key in 
the code received via SMS and proceed to follow the prompts.
(f) A shareholder may also ask questions via the Questions Tab.
12. Results of the AGM shall be published within twenty-four (24) hours following conclusion of the AGM.
Should any changes be necessitated by any laws, regulations, Shareholders will be updated through the registered contact 
details and through the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke. 

PROXY FORM
I/We, ..........................................................................., of ....................................................................................................., being 
a shareholder/shareholders of the above-named Company, hereby appoint ..........................................................................., 
of ..........................................................................., or failing him/her ............................................................................................ 
of ..................................................................................................... as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us/on my/
our behalf at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company to be held on Wednesday 29th May 2024 and at any 
adjournment thereof.
As witness my/our hand this ...................................... day of ..................................... 2024.
SIGNED .....................................
SIGNED .....................................
This Form is to be used in for or against any resolutions here below. Please mark as appropriate. Unless otherwise instructed, 
the proxy shall vote as he thinks fit.
AGENDA 
ITEM
RESOLUTION
FOR
AGAINST
ORDINARY BUSINESS
4.
To adopt the audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 
31st December 2023
5.
To approve a final dividend of Kshs. 0.16 per share and to approve the 
closure of the Register of Members at the close of business on 30th May 
2024 for one day for the purpose of determining the qualifying members 
entitled to dividends.
6.
To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board in respect of the Financial 
Year ended 31st December 2023 and to authorize the Directors to fix 
their remuneration.
7 (b)
To re-elect Mr. Stephen Chege (a Non-Executive Director representing listed 
companies) in accordance with Articles 94 and 95.
7 (c)
To re-elect  Mr. Donald Wangunyu (a Non-Executive Director representing 
Trading Participants) in accordance with Articles 94 and 95.
8 (a)
To  appoint Mr. John Niepold to continue serving as a member of  the  Board 
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
8 (b)
To appoint Ms. Risper Alaro to continue serving as a member of the Board 
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
8 (c)
To appoint Ms. Isis Nyongo - Madison to continue serving as a member of the 
Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
9.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the auditors for the Company for the 
Financial Year ending 31st December 2024 and to authorize the Directors to 
fix their remuneration.
Note: Further communication on the director vacancy arising with the retirement of Mr. Michael Turner from the Board, will 
be made to shareholders ahead of the Annual General Meeting.
SIGN
SIGN

PROXY FORM (CONTINUED)
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CONSENT FORM
Please complete in BLOCK CAPITALS
Full name of Proxy(ies):
Address:	
Mobile Number   
Date:	
Signature: 
Please tick ONE of the boxes below and return to: Image Registrars, 5th Floor, Barclays Plaza, Loita Street, Nairobi
Approval of Registration
I/We approve to register to participate in the virtual AGM to be held on 29th May 2024.
Consent for use of the Mobile Number provided
I/We would give my/our consent for the use of the mobile number provided for purposes of voting at 
the virtual AGM.
Notes:
1)  If a member is unable to attend personally, this Proxy Form should be completed and returned (together with a power of 
attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is assigned or a notarized certified copy of such power or authority) to 
Image Registrars, 5th Floor, Barclays Plaza, Loita Street, Nairobi, or through their email address NSEAgm@image.co.ke, to 
arrive not later than 11.00 a.m. (EAT) on 27th May 2024 i.e. 48 hours before the meeting or any adjournment thereof. 
2)  As a shareholder you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of your shareholder rights to 
attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at the meeting. A proxy need not to be a shareholder of the Company. 
3)  In case of a member being a corporate body, the Proxy Form must be signed under the hand of an officer or duly 
authorized attorney of such corporate body.
SIGN

CONSENT FORM FOR  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
CONSENT TO ACT AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING  
TRADING PARTICIPANTS
I ..................................................................................................... of P. O. Box ................................................. being the person in 
respect of whom ..................................................................................................... of P.O. Box ................................................. has 
given notice of intention to propose me  as a candidate to be elected as a  Non-Executive Director (representing Trading 
Participants) of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 29th May 2024, 
do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this  .............................................. day of .......................................................... 2024.
....................................................................
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1)  Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc provides as follows:
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General 
Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, 
there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified 
to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for 
election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
2)  To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to 
ceoffice@nse.coke) by 1.00 p.m. East Africa Time, on Tuesday, 21st May 2024.
SIGN

CONSENT FORM FOR  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
CONSENT TO ACT AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING  
LISTED COMPANIES
I ..................................................................................................... of P. O. Box ................................................. being the person 
in respect of whom ..................................................................................................... of P.O. Box ................................................. 
has given notice of intention to propose me  as a candidate to be elected as a  Non-Executive Director (representing listed 
companies) of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 29th May 2024, 
do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this ............................................... day of .......................................................... 2024.
....................................................................
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1)  Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc provides as follows:
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General 
Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, 
there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified 
to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for 
election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
2)  To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to 
ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. East Africa Time, on Tuesday, 21st May 2024.
SIGN

CONSENT FORM FOR INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
CONSENT TO ACT AS AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
I ..................................................................................................... of P. O. Box ................................................. being the person 
in respect of whom ..................................................................................................... of P.O. Box ................................................. 
has given notice of intention to propose me  as a candidate to be elected as an Independent , Non-Executive Director of the 
Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 29th May 2024, do hereby notify 
you of my willingness to be so elected.
SIGNED this ............................................... day of .......................................................... 2024.
....................................................................
SIGNATURE
PLEASE NOTE:
1)   Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc provides as follows:
“No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General 
Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, 
there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly 
qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such 
person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.”
2)  To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to 
ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. East Africa Time, on Tuesday 21st May 2024.
SIGN

NOMINATION FORM FOR  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS 
A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING LISTED COMPANIES
I/We ........................................................................................................of  P.O. Box..........................................................................
being a shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc and duly qualified to attend and vote at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 29th May 2024, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to 
propose ................................................................................................... of  P.O. Box ........................................................................
for election as a Non-Executive Director (representing listed companies) of the Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ............................................... day of .......................................................... 2024.
SIGNED BY:
NAME................................................................................
SIGNATURE(S) ..................................................................
PLEASE NOTE:
1)  The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc define a “Non-Executive Director” as a  Director who is not an 
Executive Director;
2)  To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to 
ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. East Africa Time, on Tuesday, 21st May 2024.
SIGN

NOMINATION FORM FOR  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS  
A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING TRADING PARTICIPANTS
I/We ........................................................................................................of P.O. Box ..........................................................................
being a shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc and duly qualified to attend and vote at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 29th May 2024, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to 
propose ................................................................................................... of P.O. Box .........................................................................
for election as a Non-Executive Director (representing Trading Participants) of the Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ............................................... day of .......................................................... 2024.
SIGNED BY:
NAME................................................................................
SIGNATURE(S) ..................................................................
PLEASE NOTE:
1)  The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc define a “Non-Executive Director” as a  Director who is not an 
Executive Director;
2)  To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke (copy to 
ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. East Africa Time, on Tuesday, 21st May 2024.
SIGN

NOMINATION FORM FOR INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS  
AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
I/We ........................................................................................................ of P.O. Box .........................................................................
being a shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc and duly qualified to attend and vote at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 29th May 2024, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to 
propose ................................................................................................... of P.O. Box .........................................................................
for election as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company at the meeting.
SIGNED this ............................................... day of .......................................................... 2024.
SIGNED BY:
NAME................................................................................
SIGNATURE(S) ..................................................................
PLEASE NOTE:
1)  The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc define an “Independent Non-Executive Director” as a Non-Ex-
ecutive Director who, for the last 5 years, has not been employed by the Company in an executive capacity; has not been 
a director of a Trading Participant; has not been employed by a Trading Participant in an executive capacity; has no personal 
service contract(s) with a Trading Participant; is not a director or a member of the senior management of a company listed on 
the Company’s securities exchange; and does not own or hold shares in a Trading Participant.
2)  To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; E-mail: kwaithaka@nse.co.ke  (copy to 
ceoffice@nse.co.ke) by 1.00 p.m. East Africa Time, on Tuesday, 21st May 2024.
SIGN

NOTES
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
151
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES
152
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC

NOTES
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC
153
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023

NOTES
154
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2023
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC



