1 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN’S AIDE MEMOIRE – PRE-FINAL VERSION 26TH MAY 2023 
 
NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC 69TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING HELD ON 
TUESDAY 30TH MAY 2023 THROUGH ELECTRONIC MEANS 
 
(The Kenya National Anthem – Kiswahili and the EAC Anthem to play – 1st Stanza of each). 
 
Good morning Shareholders, ladies and gentlemen, I want to first start by thanking you all for being  
present today 30th May 2023 for our Annual General Meeting.   
 
As we start, may I request a shareholder (or company officer present) to kindly pray for the meeting. 
 
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to the 69th Annual General Meeting of the Nairobi 
Securities Exchange Plc (NSE). It is our hope and prayer that you and your loved ones are well. 
 
My name is KIPRONO KITTONY, the Board Chairman of Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc. I am 
honoured to be chairing this Annual General Meeting (AGM).  
 
I now take this opportunity to introduce those seated here with me on this live stream: 
 
1. The Chief Executive – Mr. Geoffrey Odundo; 
2. The Company Secretary and Chief Legal Officer – Mr. Kuria Waithaka 
3. The Chief Finance Officer – Ms. Jane Kiarie 
4. Our Auditor Deloitte & Touche LLP represented by Ms. Anne Muraya, Partner. 
 
Allow me to also introduce to you the Board members of the Company participating by virtual 
means (their photos will be displayed): 
 
1. Mr. Paul Mwai - Vice Chairman 
2. Mr. Michael Turner 
3. Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto 
4. Ms. Isis Nyongo Madison 
5. Mr. Donald Wangunyu 
6. Mr. Stephen Chege 
7. Mr. John Nieopold 
8. Ms. Carole Kariuki 
 
I also acknowledge the support provided by CDSC Registrars for their work towards the success of 
this electronic meeting.  
 
.  
 

2 
 
Once again, we have taken significant measures to ensure that this virtual AGM mirrors our usual 
AGM structure. In this regard, Shareholders, we shall continue having an elaborate Question and 
Answer session and you can be sending in your questions via the Q&A button on your screen or   
chat button. We shall also allow some live calls during the session, for those who have registered 
for the service. You can also vote using the “vote” button on your dashboard or by USSD 
(*483*560#) code provided. 
 
Dear Shareholders, as we transact the business of the day, I wish to thank you all for your continued 
support and assure you of our commitment today and beyond. 
 
This meeting has been convened to conduct the ordinary and also special business set out in the 
notice of the meeting. 
 
1. PROXIES AND QUORUM  
 
CHAIRMAN:  
I shall now ask the Secretary to report on the registration and confirmation 
of shareholder participation through registration and confirm the presence of 
a quorum. 
 
SECRETARY:  
Thank you Mr. Chairman. I confirm that a total number of …… shareholders 
and proxies holding a total of ………shares representing …..% of the 
Company’s shareholding, have registered for this electronic Annual General 
Meeting. I confirm that the meeting is properly constituted and quorate. 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
I therefore declare the meeting to be properly convened and duly constituted. 
 
2. AGENDA ITEM NO. 1 - READING THE NOTICE OF MEETING 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
As per Agenda Item No. 1, I call upon the Secretary to read the Notice 
convening the Meeting. 
 
SECRETARY: 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 69TH ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING 
of 
the 
shareholders 
of 
NAIROBI 
SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE PLC will be held via electronic communication, on Tuesday 
30th May 2023 at 11.00 a.m. when business as set out in the published notice 
(on our website and other communication platforms, in two daily 
newspapers and also in the 2022 Integrated Report and Financial 
Statements) shall be conducted. 
 
 
3. AGENDA ITEM NO. 2 - MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING HELD ON 
3RD JUNE 2022 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
The Minutes of last year’s Annual General Meeting, which are under Agenda 
Item No. 2, have been circulated and with your concurrence, I propose that 
they are taken as read and approved. 
 
 

3 
 
4. AGENDA ITEM NO. 3 – RECEIVING THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT AND CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S REPORT 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
Shareholders, moving to Agenda Item No. 3, the year 2022 Integrated Report 
and Financial Statements were made available to all shareholders through a 
publication in the local dailies as well as on the Company’s website, as 
indicated in the notice convening the meeting.  
 
The Chairman’s Statement for the year ended 31st December 2022, was 
published in the 2022 Integrated Report and Financial Statements and is 
contained at page .. and I will however provide some highlights. (Chairman 
reads an abridged version of his statement). 
 
CHAIRMAN:  
The Chief Executive’s Report is also contained in the Integrated Report and 
Financial Statements from page ….. However the Chief Executive will 
highlight the same and I now take this opportunity to invite the Chief 
Executive, Mr. Geoffrey Odundo, to present to you his report for the year 
ended 31st December 2022.   
 
(CEO to make a presentation verbally, whilst a PowerPoint slide 
presentation is ongoing).  
 
CHAIRMAN: 
     Thank you Mr. Odundo. 
 
5. AGENDA ITEM NO. 4 - AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2022 AND DIRECTORS’ AND AUDITORS REPORT 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
The Directors’ Report which was also circulated in the year 2022 Integrated 
Report and Financial Statements, is contained on pages … to … and it is 
proposed that it is taken as read. 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
With regard to the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31st 
December 2022, as per Agenda Item No. 4, I will now call upon the 
representative from our Auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, Ms. Anne 
Muraya, to highlight their audit opinion to members.  
 
 (Auditor’s representative reads the opinion on page …. of the  
  Integrated Report and Financial Statements). 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
   Thank you very much Ms. Muraya. 
 
 
6. QUESTIONS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
As you are all aware, shareholders were already given an opportunity to ask 
questions and seek clarifications in regard to the Financial Statements for the 
year ended 31st December 2022, and the resolutions being presented. We have 
received some questions and also requests for clarification from shareholders 
and have responded to them as appropriate.  

4 
 
 
Having said that, I shall provide additional opportunity to members who might 
have pressing questions to ask them using the “Q&A” button on your  
streaming screen. Please note we might not be able to respond to all the questions  
raised due to time limitations and therefore, all the questions received shall be  
collated and responses published on our website after the meeting. 
 
Shareholders, let me now invite those wishing to call in with questions, to 
proceed and dial in by pressing the raise hand icon on their screens. 
   
Call process commences  
 
(Chairman takes five to six questions from shareholders calling in).  
 
Hello and thank you for calling in.  Please state your name and where you are 
calling us from. 
 
(Shareholder response/question) 
 
Please proceed to ask your question. 
 
(Shareholder response/question) 
 
Thank you. We have noted your question and will respond to it after all the 
questions are in.   
 
(Chairman to move to next caller and repeat the process).  
 
(Where there may be a delay in receiving phone calls, the Chairman shall 
prompt the Company Secretary to read out any questions that may be received 
in the livestream on the portal)  
 
    CHAIRMAN:  
Thank you, shareholders. Before we proceed to respond to the questions, we 
shall provide you with the guidelines on how to cast your votes for the 
Resolutions placed before this AGM and which are summarized in the Notice of 
this Meeting.     
   
Please see the screen for the instructions on the voting process. 
 
(During the break, Chairman to distribute the questions asked by the 
shareholders who have dialed in and questions received from the livestream). 
 
After the short break, the Chairman to resume the meeting for the Q & A 
session which will comprise questions received from shareholders who have 
dialed in and received during the AGM on the livestream. 
 
CHAIRMAN:  
I will now request the Chief Executive and/or Chief Finance Officer to respond 
to the questions received. 
 

5 
 
(CEO/CFO to respond to allocated queries and thereafter handover back to the 
Chairman). 
 
(Completion of Q & A session). 
 
CHAIRMAN: Shareholders, I trust that we have now given adequate consideration to all matters 
contained in the Integrated Report and Financial Statements and the questions 
raised by shareholders. The Q&A session on the Financial Statements is now 
closed.  
 
I now call upon a member to propose and another to second the 1st Resolution, 
relating to Agenda Item No. 4, as follows: 
 
THAT the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31st December 
2022, together with the Directors’ and Auditors Reports thereon be and are 
hereby approved and adopted. 
 
CHAIRMAN:  
Company Secretary, do we have a proposer and a seconder of the motion? 
 
SECRETARY: Yes Mr. Chairman …….. proposes and …….. seconds the motion. 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
The Resolution to approve and adopt the Report and Financial Statements has  
been proposed and seconded. I now put it to the Meeting for voting. 
 
7. AGENDA ITEM NO. 5 - DIVIDEND DECLARATION AND APPROVAL 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
The next item on the Agenda (Item No. 5), is to approve a final dividend of 
Kshs. 0.20 per ordinary share, in respect of the Financial Year ended 31st 
December 2021 and to approve the closure of the Register of Members at the 
close of business on 3rd June 2023, for one day, for the purpose of determining 
the qualifying members entitled to dividends. 
 
 
I therefore call upon a member to propose and another to second the 2nd 
Resolution in relation to Agenda Item No. 5, as follows: 
 
 
THAT a final dividend of Kshs. 0.20 per ordinary share, in respect of the 
Financial Year ended 31st December 2022, be and is hereby approved.  
 
Further THAT the closure of the Register of Members at the close of 
business on 3rd June 2023 for one day for the purpose of determining the 
qualifying members entitled to dividends, be and is hereby approved. 
 
CHAIRMAN:  
Company Secretary, do we have a proposer and a seconder of the motion? 
 
SECRETARY: Yes Mr. Chairman, …….. proposes and ……. seconds the motion 
 
CHAIRMAN:  
Thank you. I now put the Resolution to the Meeting for voting.  
 

6 
 
8. AGENDA ITEM NO. 6 - APPROVAL OF THE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
The next matter to be dealt with, namely Agenda Item No. 6, is the approval 
of the Directors’ remuneration and Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Shareholders will note that the Company has disclosed its Directors’ 
remuneration for the year ended 31st December 2022 on Pages 69 to 74, of 
the year 2022 Integrated Report and Financial Statements.  
 
 
In accordance with provisions of Section 681 of the Companies Act 2015 
and the Tenth Schedule of the Companies Regulations 2017, members are 
required to vote to approve the Directors’ Remuneration and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.  
 
The law requires the Board to disclose the percentage of votes cast for, 
against and abstentions on this Resolution.  
 
The 3rd Resolution to be passed under this Agenda Item No. 6 is therefore: 
 
 
THAT the Remuneration Report of the Board as detailed in the 
Integrated Report and Financial Statements for the Financial Year 
ended 31st December 2022 be and is hereby approved, and the Directors 
are  authorized to fix their remuneration. 
 
CHAIRMAN:  
Company Secretary, do we have a proposer and a seconder of the motion? 
 
SECRETARY: Yes Mr. Chairman, we have …………… proposing and   …………….. 
seconding the motion. 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
Thank you. I will now put the Resolution to the Meeting for voting. 
 
 
9. AGENDA ITEM NO. 7 - ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
The next item on the Agenda (Item No. 7) is the retirement and re-election of  
Directors. Dear Shareholders, this year we have three Directors retiring at this Meeting, 
namely Mr. Michael Turner, Ms. Risper Alaro - Mukoto and Mr. Paul Mwai, all of 
whom offer themselves for re-election.  
 
I now request a member to formally propose and another to second the following 
Resolutions (collectively comprising the 4th Resolution), as follows: 
 
 
 
 
(a) THAT in accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles 
of Association, Mr. Michael Turner,  who retires by rotation, and being 
eligible for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director; 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
Company Secretary, do we have a proposer and a seconder of the motion? 
 

7 
 
SECRETARY:   Yes we do, that is ……….. proposes and  ………… seconds the motion. 
CHAIRMAN: 
Thank you. I will now put the Resolution to the Meeting for voting. 
 
CHAIRMAN:    Next I will put the following Resolution to the Meeting for voting. 
 
(b) THAT in accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles 
of Association, Ms. Risper Alaro - Mukoto, who retires by rotation, and 
being eligible for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a Non-
Executive Director representing listed companies; 
 
CHAIRMAN:    Do we have a proposer and a seconder of the motion? 
 
SECRETARY:    Yes, we have …………… proposing and …………….seconding the motion 
 
CHAIRMAN:    I will now put the next Resolution to the Meeting for voting, as follows: 
 
(c) THAT in accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles 
of Association, Mr. Paul Mwai, who retires by rotation, and being 
eligible for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a Non-Executive 
Director representing trading participants. 
 
CHAIRMAN:    Do we have a proposer and a seconder of the motion? 
 
SECRETARY:   Yes we do ………… proposes whilst xxxxxxxx seconds the motion 
 
CHAIRMAN:    Thank you. I will now put the Resolution to the Meeting for voting. Having  
dispensed with this matter, I now hand back the meeting to the Chairman. 
 
10. AGENDA ITEM NO. 8 - APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD AUDIT, RISK 
AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE 
 
CHAIRMAN: 
After re-electing the Directors, the next matter to be dealt with, namely under 
Agenda Item No. 8, is the appointment and confirmation of members of the 
Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, in line with provisions of 
Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015.  
 
The 5th Resolution to be passed is therefore: 
 
THAT in accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies 
Act, 2015, the following directors, being members of the Board Audit, Risk 
and Compliance Committee, be appointed individually to continue to serve 
as members of the said Committee: 
 
(a) Mr. John Niepold; 
(b) Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto (subject to re-election); 
(c) Ms. Isis Nyong’o Madison; and 
(d) Mr. Michael Turner (subject to re-election). 
 
CHAIRMAN:    Do we have a proposer and a seconder of the motion? 

8 
 
 
SECRETARY:  Yes we do ……….. has proposed and ……….. has seconded the motion. 
 
CHAIRMAN:    Thank you. I will now put the Resolution to the Meeting for voting. 
 
11. AGENDA ITEM NO. 9 - APPOINTMENT OF THE AUDITORS AND APPROVAL OF 
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION 
 
CHAIRMAN:    The next matter on the Agenda, under Item No. 9 is To reappoint Messrs 
Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Auditors of the Company, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 721(4) of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorize the 
Directors to fix their remuneration for the ensuing Financial Year in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 724 of the Companies Act, 2015. 
. 
The 6th Resolution to be passed is therefore: 
 
THAT in accordance with the provisions of Section 721 of the Companies 
Act, 2015 Messrs. Deloitte & Touche LLP be and are hereby reappointed 
as the auditors for the Financial Year ending 31st December 2023 and the 
Directors are in accordance with the provisions of Section 724 of the 
Companies Act, 2015 hereby authorized to fix the Auditor’s remuneration. 
 
 
I will now ask a member to formally propose this Resolution and another to 
second the same. 
 
CHAIRMAN:      Do we have a proposer and a seconder of the motion? 
 
SECRETARY:    Yes we have ……………. proposing and ……………  
seconding the motion. 
 
CHAIRMAN:     Thank you. I will now put the Resolution to the Meeting for voting. 
 
 
12. AGENDA ITEM NO. 10 - OTHER BUSINESS  
 
CHAIRMAN: 
The Company Secretary has informed me that he has not received notice of any 
other business and as such there is no further business to be deliberated. 
 
Dear Shareholders, please remember that voting shall continue until 1.00 p.m. 
today. The results shall be published on the Company’s website within 24 hours 
and the outcome shall be deemed to be a resolution of this meeting enforceable 
immediately in line with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
 
That therefore concludes the official business of the 69th Annual General 
Meeting. Before I close the meeting, allow me to make some closing 
remarks.  
 
 
 

9 
 
13. CHAIRMAN’S CLOSING REMARKS 
 
CHAIRMAN:     Dear shareholders, I take this opportunity to convey my gratitude for your 
attendance and participation in this AGM. Thank you for continuing to be 
supportive of your company. 
 
 
 
 
I wish to recognize and appreciate my fellow Board members for their support 
in steering the ship that is NSE and for selflessly giving of their time, experience 
and knowledge to provide the requisite oversight with regard to the business and 
operations of your Company. I am also grateful to the Chief Executive, the 
Management team and staff of the NSE for their wholehearted dedication 
towards achieving the strategic objectives of the company and taking the 
business to a new level, especially as it positions itself as a formidable player in 
the global financial markets. 
 
I also wish to appreciate the NSE team and all the service providers who were 
instrumental in organizing and ensuring the success of this virtual AGM. 
 
With that, I wish you well, stay safe and God’s blessings. Have a good rest of 
the day.  
 
I declare the Meeting officially closed. 
 
(The Kenya National Anthem and EAC Anthem to play). 
 
------------------END------------------- 

